CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION
COMMISSION
appeal from the united states district court for the
district of columbia
No. 08–205. Argued March 24, 2009—Reargued September 9, 2009––
Decided January 21, 2010
As amended by § 203 of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
(BCRA), federal law prohibits corporations and unions from using their
general treasury funds to make independent expenditures for speech
that is an “electioneering communication” or for speech that expressly
advocates the election or defeat of a candidate. 2 U. S. C. § 441b. An
electioneering communication is “any broadcast, cable, or satellite communication”
that “refers to a clearly identified candidate for Federal
office” and is made within 30 days of a primary election, § 434(f)(3)(A),
and that is “publicly distributed,” 11 CFR § 100.29(a)(2), which in “the
case of a candidate for nomination for President . . . means” that
the communication “[c]an be received by 50,000 or more persons in a
State where a primary election . . . is being held within 30 days,”
§ 100.29(b)(3)(ii). Corporations and unions may establish a political action
committee (PAC) for express advocacy or electioneering communications
purposes. 2 U. S. C. § 441b(b)(2). In McConnell v. Federal
Election Comm’n, 540 U. S. 93, 203–209, this Court upheld limits on
electioneering communications in a facial challenge, relying on the
holding in Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, 494 U. S. 652,
that political speech may be banned based on the speaker’s corporate
identity.
In January 2008, appellant Citizens United, a nonprofit corporation,
released a documentary (hereinafter Hillary) critical of then-Senator
Hillary Clinton, a candidate for her party’s Presidential nomination.
Anticipating that it would make Hillary available on cable television
through video-on-demand within 30 days of primary elections, Citizens
United produced television ads to run on broadcast and cable television.
Concerned about possible civil and criminal penalties for violating
§ 441b, it sought declaratory and injunctive relief, arguing that (1) § 441b
is unconstitutional as applied to Hillary; and (2) BCRA’s disclaimer,
disclosure, and reporting requirements, BCRA §§ 201 and 311, were unconstitutional
as applied to Hillary and the ads. The District Court
denied Citizens United a preliminary injunction and granted appellee
Federal Election Commission (FEC) summary judgment.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) Syllabus
311
Held:
1. Because the question whether § 441b applies to Hillary cannot be
resolved on other, narrower grounds without chilling political speech,
this Court must consider the continuing effect of the speech suppression
upheld in Austin. Pp. 322–336.
(a) Citizens United’s narrower arguments—that Hillary is not an
“electioneering communication” covered by § 441b because it is not “publicly
distributed” under 11 CFR § 100.29(a)(2); that § 441b may not be
applied to Hillary under Federal Election Comm’n v. Wisconsin Right
to Life, Inc., 551 U. S. 449 (WRTL), which found § 441b unconstitutional
as applied to speech that was not “express advocacy or its functional
equivalent,” id., at 481 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.), determining that a
communication “is the functional equivalent of express advocacy only if
[it] is susceptible of no reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal
to vote for or against a specific candidate,” id., at 469–470; that § 441b
should be invalidated as applied to movies shown through video-ondemand
because this delivery system has a lower risk of distorting the
political process than do television ads; and that there should be an
exception to § 441b’s ban for nonprofit corporate political speech funded
overwhelmingly by individuals—are not sustainable under a fair reading
of the statute. Pp. 322–329.
(b) Thus, this case cannot be resolved on a narrower ground without
chilling political speech, speech that is central to the First Amendment’s
meaning and purpose. Citizens United did not waive this challenge
to Austin when it stipulated to dismissing the facial challenge
below, since (1) even if such a challenge could be waived, this Court may
reconsider Austin and § 441b’s facial validity here because the District
Court “passed upon” the issue, Lebron v. National Railroad Passenger
Corporation, 513 U. S. 374, 379; (2) throughout the litigation, Citizens
United has asserted a claim that the FEC has violated its right to free
speech; and (3) the parties cannot enter into a stipulation that prevents
the Court from considering remedies necessary to resolve a claim that
has been preserved. Because Citizens United’s narrower arguments
are not sustainable, this Court must, in an exercise of its judicial responsibility,
consider § 441b’s facial validity. Any other course would prolong
the substantial, nationwide chilling effect caused by § 441b’s corporate
expenditure ban. This conclusion is further supported by the
following: (1) the uncertainty caused by the Government’s litigating position;
(2) substantial time would be required to clarify § 441b’s application
on the points raised by the Government’s position in order to avoid
any chilling effect caused by an improper interpretation; and (3) because
speech itself is of primary importance to the integrity of the election
process, any speech arguably within the reach of rules created for regu312 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Syllabus
lating political speech is chilled. The regulatory scheme at issue may
not be a prior restraint in the strict sense. However, given its complexity
and the deference courts show to administrative determinations,
a speaker wishing to avoid criminal liability threats and the heavy
costs of defending against FEC enforcement must ask a governmental
agency for prior permission to speak. The restrictions thus function as
the equivalent of a prior restraint, giving the FEC power analogous
to the type of government practices that the First Amendment was
drawn to prohibit. The ongoing chill on speech makes it necessary to
invoke the earlier precedents that a statute that chills speech can and
must be invalidated where its facial invalidity has been demonstrated.
Pp. 329–336.
2. Austin is overruled, and thus provides no basis for allowing the
Government to limit corporate independent expenditures. Hence,
§ 441b’s restrictions on such expenditures are invalid and cannot be applied
to Hillary. Given this conclusion, the part of McConnell that
upheld BCRA § 203’s extension of § 441b’s restrictions on independent
corporate expenditures is also overruled. Pp. 336–366.
(a) Although the First Amendment provides that “Congress shall
make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech,” § 441b’s prohibition
on corporate independent expenditures is an outright ban on speech,
backed by criminal sanctions. It is a ban notwithstanding the fact that
a PAC created by a corporation can still speak, for a PAC is a separate
association from the corporation. Because speech is an essential mechanism
of democracy—it is the means to hold officials accountable to the
people—political speech must prevail against laws that would suppress
it by design or inadvertence. Laws burdening such speech are subject
to strict scrutiny, which requires the Government to prove that the restriction
“furthers a compelling interest and is narrowly tailored to
achieve that interest.” WRTL, supra, at 464. This language provides
a sufficient framework for protecting the interests in this case. Premised
on mistrust of governmental power, the First Amendment stands
against attempts to disfavor certain subjects or viewpoints or to distinguish
among different speakers, which may be a means to control content.
The Government may also commit a constitutional wrong when
by law it identifies certain preferred speakers. There is no basis for
the proposition that, in the political speech context, the Government
may impose restrictions on certain disfavored speakers. Both history
and logic lead to this conclusion. Pp. 336–341.
(b) The Court has recognized that the First Amendment applies to
corporations, e. g., First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765,
778, n. 14, and extended this protection to the context of political speech,
see, e. g., NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 428–429. Addressing challenges
to the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, the Court in BuckCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 313
Syllabus
ley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (per curiam), upheld limits on direct contributions
to candidates, 18 U. S. C. § 608(b), recognizing a governmental interest
in preventing quid pro quo corruption. 424 U. S., at 25–26.
However, the Court invalidated § 608(e)’s expenditure ban, which applied
to individuals, corporations, and unions, because it “fail[ed] to serve any
substantial governmental interest in stemming the reality or appearance
of corruption in the electoral process,” id., at 47–48. While Buckley
did not consider a separate ban on corporate and union independent
expenditures found in § 610, had that provision been challenged in Buckley’s
wake, it could not have been squared with the precedent’s reasoning
and analysis. The Buckley Court did not invoke the overbreadth
doctrine to suggest that § 608(e)’s expenditure ban would have been constitutional
had it applied to corporations and unions but not individuals.
Notwithstanding this precedent, Congress soon recodified § 610’s corporate
and union expenditure ban at 2 U. S. C. § 441b, the provision at
issue. Less than two years after Buckley, Bellotti reaffirmed the First
Amendment principle that the Government lacks the power to restrict
political speech based on the speaker’s corporate identity. 435 U. S., at
784–785. Thus the law stood until Austin upheld a corporate independent
expenditure restriction, bypassing Buckley and Bellotti by recognizing
a new governmental interest in preventing “the corrosive and
distorting effects of immense aggregations of [corporate] wealth . . . that
have little or no correlation to the public’s support for the corporation’s
political ideas.” 494 U. S., at 660. Pp. 342–348.
(c) This Court is confronted with conflicting lines of precedent: a
pre-Austin line forbidding speech restrictions based on the speaker’s
corporate identity and a post-Austin line permitting them. Neither
Austin’s antidistortion rationale nor the Government’s other justifications
support § 441b’s restrictions. Pp. 348–362.
(1) The First Amendment prohibits Congress from fining or jailing
citizens, or associations of citizens, for engaging in political speech,
but Austin’s antidistortion rationale would permit the Government to
ban political speech because the speaker is an association with a corporate
form. Political speech is “indispensable to decisionmaking in a democracy,
and this is no less true because the speech comes from a corporation.”
Bellotti, supra, at 777 (footnote omitted). This protection is
inconsistent with Austin’s rationale, which is meant to prevent corporations
from obtaining “ ‘an unfair advantage in the political marketplace’ ”
by using “ ‘resources amassed in the economic marketplace.’ ” 494 U. S.,
at 659. First Amendment protections do not depend on the speaker’s
“financial ability to engage in public discussion.” Buckley, supra, at 49.
These conclusions were reaffirmed when the Court invalidated a BCRA
provision that increased the cap on contributions to one candidate if
the opponent made certain expenditures from personal funds. Davis v.314 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Syllabus
Federal Election Comm’n, 554 U. S. 724, 742. Distinguishing wealthy
individuals from corporations based on the latter’s special advantages
of, e. g., limited liability, does not suffice to allow laws prohibiting speech.
It is irrelevant for First Amendment purposes that corporate funds may
“have little or no correlation to the public’s support for the corporation’s
political ideas.” Austin, supra, at 660. All speakers, including individuals
and the media, use money amassed from the economic marketplace
to fund their speech, and the First Amendment protects the resulting
speech. Under the antidistortion rationale, Congress could also ban
political speech of media corporations. Although currently exempt
from § 441b, they accumulate wealth with the help of their corporate
form, may have aggregations of wealth, and may express views “hav[ing]
little or no correlation to the public’s support” for those views.
Differential treatment of media corporations and other corporations cannot
be squared with the First Amendment, and there is no support for
the view that the Amendment’s original meaning would permit suppressing
media corporations’ political speech. Austin interferes with
the “open marketplace” of ideas protected by the First Amendment.
New York State Bd. of Elections v. Lopez Torres, 552 U. S. 196, 208.
Its censorship is vast in its reach, suppressing the speech of both for-
profit and nonprofit, both small and large, corporations. Pp. 349–356.
(2) This reasoning also shows the invalidity of the Government’s
other arguments. It reasons that corporate political speech can be
banned to prevent corruption or its appearance. The Buckley Court
found this rationale “sufficiently important” to allow contribution limits
but refused to extend that reasoning to expenditure limits, 424 U. S., at
25, and the Court does not do so here. While a single Bellotti footnote
purported to leave the question open, 435 U. S., at 788, n. 26, this Court
now concludes that independent expenditures, including those made by
corporations, do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption.
That speakers may have influence over or access to elected officials
does not mean that those officials are corrupt. And the appearance
of influence or access will not cause the electorate to lose faith
in this democracy. Caperton v. A. T. Massey Coal Co., 556 U. S. 868,
distinguished. Pp. 356–361.
(3) The Government’s asserted interest in protecting shareholders
from being compelled to fund corporate speech, like the antidistortion
rationale, would allow the Government to ban political speech even
of media corporations. The statute is underinclusive; it only protects a
dissenting shareholder’s interests in certain media for 30 or 60 days
before an election when such interests would be implicated in any media
at any time. It is also overinclusive because it covers all corporations,
including those with one shareholder. Pp. 361–362.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 315
Syllabus
(4) Because § 441b is not limited to corporations or associations
created in foreign countries or funded predominantly by foreign shareholders,
it would be overbroad even if the Court were to recognize a
compelling governmental interest in limiting foreign influence over the
Nation’s political process. P. 362.
(d) The relevant factors in deciding whether to adhere to stare decisis,
beyond workability—the precedent’s antiquity, the reliance interests
at stake, and whether the decision was well reasoned—counsel in favor
of abandoning Austin, which itself contravened the precedents of Buckley
and Bellotti. As already explained, Austin was not well reasoned.
It is also undermined by experience since its announcement. Political
speech is so ingrained in this country’s culture that speakers find ways
around campaign finance laws. Rapid changes in technology—and the
creative dynamic inherent in the concept of free expression—counsel
against upholding a law that restricts political speech in certain media
or by certain speakers. In addition, no serious reliance issues are at
stake. Thus, due consideration leads to the conclusion that Austin
should be overruled. The Court returns to the principle established in
Buckley and Bellotti that the Government may not suppress political
speech based on the speaker’s corporate identity. No sufficient governmental
interest justifies limits on the political speech of nonprofit or
for-profit corporations. Pp. 362–366.
3. BCRA §§ 201 and 311 are valid as applied to the ads for Hillary
and to the movie itself. Pp. 366–372.
(a) Disclaimer and disclosure requirements may burden the ability
to speak, but they “impose no ceiling on campaign-related activities,”
Buckley, supra, at 64, or “ ‘ “prevent anyone from speaking,” ’ ” McConnell,
540 U. S., at 201. The Buckley Court explained that disclosure can
be justified by a governmental interest in providing “the electorate with
information” about election-related spending sources. 424 U. S., at 66.
The McConnell Court applied this interest in rejecting facial challenges
to §§ 201 and 311. 540 U. S., at 196. However, the Court acknowledged
that as-applied challenges would be available if a group could show a
“ ‘reasonable probability’ ” that disclosing its contributors’ names would
“ ‘subject them to threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government
officials or private parties.’ ” Id., at 198. Pp. 366–367.
(b) The disclaimer and disclosure requirements are valid as applied
to Citizens United’s ads. They fall within BCRA’s “electioneering communication”
definition: They referred to then-Senator Clinton by name
shortly before a primary and contained pejorative references to her
candidacy. Section 311 disclaimers provide information to the electorate,
McConnell, supra, at 196, and “insure that the voters are fully
informed” about who is speaking, Buckley, supra, at 76. At the very316 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Syllabus
least, they avoid confusion by making clear that the ads are not funded
by a candidate or political party. Citizens United’s arguments that
§ 311 is underinclusive because it requires disclaimers for broadcast advertisements
but not for print or Internet advertising and that § 311
decreases the quantity and effectiveness of the group’s speech were rejected
in McConnell. This Court also rejects their contention that
§ 201’s disclosure requirements must be confined to speech that is the
functional equivalent of express advocacy under WRTL’s test for restrictions
on independent expenditures, 551 U. S., at 469–476 (opinion of
Roberts, C. J.). Disclosure is the less restrictive alternative to more
comprehensive speech regulations. Such requirements have been upheld
in Buckley and McConnell. Citizens United’s argument that no
informational interest justifies applying § 201 to its ads is similar to
the argument this Court rejected with regard to disclaimers. Citizens
United finally claims that disclosure requirements can chill donations by
exposing donors to retaliation, but offers no evidence that its members
face the type of threats, harassment, or reprisals that might make § 201
unconstitutional as applied. Pp. 367–371.
(c) For these same reasons, this Court affirms the application of
the §§ 201 and 311 disclaimer and disclosure requirements to Hillary.
Pp. 371–372.
Reversed in part, affirmed in part, and remanded.
Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts,
C. J., and Scalia and Alito, JJ., joined, in which Thomas, J., joined as to
all but Part IV, and in which Stevens, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Soto-
mayor, JJ., joined as to Part IV. Roberts, C. J., filed a concurring opinion,
in which Alito, J., joined, post, p. 372. Scalia, J., filed a concurring
opinion, in which Alito, J., joined, and in which Thomas, J., joined in part,
post, p. 385. Stevens, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting
in part, in which Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor, JJ., joined,
post, p. 393. Thomas, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting
in part, post, p. 480.
Theodore B. Olson argued and reargued the cause for appellant.
With him on the briefs were Matthew D. McGill,
Amir C. Tayrani, and Michael Boos.
Floyd Abrams argued the cause for Senator Mitch McConnell
as amicus curiae. With him on the brief was Susan
Buckley.
Solicitor General Kagan reargued the cause for appellee.
Deputy Solicitor General Stewart argued the cause for apCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 317
Counsel
pellee on the original argument. With them on the briefs
were then-Acting Solicitor General Kneedler, William M.
Jay, Thomasenia P. Duncan, David Kolker, Kevin Deeley,
and Adav Noti.
Seth P. Waxman argued the cause for Senator John McCain
et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance. With him on
the briefs were Randolph D. Moss, Roger M. Witten, Scott
L. Nelson, Alan B. Morrison, Brian Wolfman, Trevor
Potter, J. Gerald Hebert, Paul S. Ryan, Tara Malloy, Fred
Wertheimer, and Donald J. Simon.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Alliance Defense
Fund by Benjamin W. Bull, Erik W. Stanley, and Robert J. McCully;
for the American Civil Rights Union by Peter Ferrara; for the American
Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Jonathan
P. Hiatt and Laurence E. Gold; for the Cato Institute by Benjamin
D. Wood, Glenn M. Willard, William J. McGinley, and Ilya Shapiro; for
the Center for Competitive Politics by Stephen M. Hoersting and Reid
Alan Cox; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America
by Jan Witold Baran, Thomas W. Kirby, Caleb P. Burns, Robin S. Conrad,
Amar D. Sarwal, Steven J. Law, and Judith K. Richmond; for the
Committee for Truth in Politics, Inc., by James Bopp, Jr., and Richard E.
Coleson; for the Foundation for Free Expression by Deborah J. Dewart
and James L. Hirsen; for the National Rifle Association by Charles J.
Cooper, David H. Thompson, and David Lehn; for the Reporters Committee
for Freedom of the Press by Lucy A. Dalglish and Gregg P. Leslie;
and for the Wyoming Liberty Group et al. by Benjamin Barr.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Independent Business Alliance by Brenda Wright, Lisa J. Danetz, and
Daniel J. H. Greenwood; for the Campaign Legal Center et al. by Messrs.
Potter and Hebert, Ms. Malloy, and Messrs. Ryan, Simon, and Wertheimer;
for the Center for Political Accountability et al. by Karl J. Sandstrom;
for the League of Women Voters of the United States et al. by
Douglas T. Kendall, Elizabeth B. Wydra, David H. Gans, and Lloyd J.
Leonard; for the Program on Corporations, Law and Democracy et al. by
Jeffrey D. Clements; for the Sunlight Foundation et al. by Gary S. Stein;
and for Norman Ornstein et al. by H. Christopher Bartolomucci.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the State of Montana et al. by Steve
Bullock, Attorney General of Montana, and Anthony Johnstone, Solicitor,
by Terry Goddard, Attorney General of Arizona, Mary R. O’Grady, Solicitor
General, and Orville B. Fitch II, Acting Attorney General of New318 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
Federal law prohibits corporations and unions from using
their general treasury funds to make independent expendi-
Hampshire, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as
follows: Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Bill McCollum of Florida,
Mark J. Bennett of Hawaii, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Tom Miller of Iowa,
Steve Six of Kansas, Douglas F. Gansler of Maryland, Martha Coakley of
Massachusetts, Michael A. Cox of Michigan, Lori Swanson of Minnesota,
Jim Hood of Mississippi, Anne Milgram of New Jersey, Gary K. King of
New Mexico, Roy Cooper of North Carolina, Wayne Stenehjem of North
Dakota, Richard Cordray of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma,
Thomas W. Corbett, Jr., of Pennsylvania, Patrick C. Lynch of Rhode Island,
Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota, Robert E. Cooper, Jr., of Tennessee,
William H. Sorrell of Vermont, and Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West
Virginia; for the American Civil Liberties Union by Steven R. Shapiro,
Joel M. Gora, and Mark J. Lopez; for the American Justice Partnership
et al. by Cleta Mitchell and Michael J. Lockerby; for the California Broadcasters
Association et al. by Lawrence H. Norton, James A. Kahl, and
Gregg P. Skall; for the California First Amendment Coalition by Gary L.
Bostwick and Jean-Paul Jassy; for Campaign Finance Scholars by Allison
R. Hayward, pro se; for the Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence by
Anthony T. Caso, Edwin Meese III, and John C. Eastman; for the Center
for Independent Media et al. by Monica Youn; for the Center for Political
Accountability et al. by Mr. Sandstrom; for the Committee for Economic
Development by Paul M. Smith; for the Democratic National Committee
by Robert F. Bauer and David J. Burman; for the Fidelis Center for Law
and Policy et al. by Patrick T. Gillen; for Former Officials of the American
Civil Liberties Union by Norman Dorsen and Burt Neuborne, both pro se;
for the Free Speech Defense and Education Fund, Inc., et al. by William J.
Olson, Herbert W. Titus, John S. Miles, and Mark B. Weinberg; for the
Hachette Book Group, Inc., et al. by Michael J. Chepiga; for the Independent
Sector by M. Devereux Chatillon; for the Institute for Justice by William
R. Maurer, William H. Mellor, Steven M. Simpson, and Robert W.
Gall; for Judicial Watch, Inc., by Paul J. Orfanedes and Dale L. Wilcox;
for Justice at Stake et al. by James E. Scarboro; for the Michigan Chamber
of Commerce by Richard D. McLellan, Gary P. Gordon, John D. Pirich,
and Andrea L. Hansen; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Deborah J. La
Fetra and Damien M. Schiff; for Public Good by Seth E. Mermin; for
Seven Former Chairmen of the Federal Election Commission et al. by
Messrs. Bopp and Coleson; and for Representative Chris Van Hollen et al.
by Bradley S. Phillips and Aaron S. Lowenstein.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 319
Opinion of the Court
tures for speech defined as an “electioneering communication”
or for speech expressly advocating the election or
defeat of a candidate. 2 U. S. C. § 441b. Limits on electioneering
communications were upheld in McConnell v. Federal
Election Comm’n, 540 U. S. 93, 203–209 (2003). The holding
of McConnell rested to a large extent on an earlier case,
Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, 494 U. S. 652
(1990). Austin had held that political speech may be banned
based on the speaker’s corporate identity.
In this case we are asked to reconsider Austin and, in
effect, McConnell. It has been noted that “Austin was a
significant departure from ancient First Amendment principles,”
Federal Election Comm’n v. Wisconsin Right to Life,
Inc., 551 U. S. 449, 490 (2007) (WRTL) (Scalia, J., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment). We agree with that
conclusion and hold that stare decisis does not compel the
continued acceptance of Austin. The Government may regulate
corporate political speech through disclaimer and disclosure
requirements, but it may not suppress that speech
altogether. We turn to the case now before us.
I
A
Citizens United is a nonprofit corporation. It brought this
action in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia. A three-judge court later convened to hear the
cause. The resulting judgment gives rise to this appeal.
Citizens United has an annual budget of about $12 million.
Most of its funds are from donations by individuals; but, in
addition, it accepts a small portion of its funds from for-
profit corporations.
In January 2008, Citizens United released a film entitled
Hillary: The Movie. We refer to the film as Hillary. It is
a 90-minute documentary about then-Senator Hillary Clinton,
who was a candidate in the Democratic Party’s 2008
Presidential primary elections. Hillary mentions Senator320 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Clinton by name and depicts interviews with political commentators
and other persons, most of them quite critical of
Senator Clinton. Hillary was released in theaters and on
DVD, but Citizens United wanted to increase distribution by
making it available through video-on-demand.
Video-on-demand allows digital cable subscribers to select
programming from various menus, including movies, television
shows, sports, news, and music. The viewer can watch
the program at any time and can elect to rewind or pause
the program. In December 2007, a cable company offered,
for a payment of $1.2 million, to make Hillary available
on a video-on-demand channel called “Elections ’08.” App.
255a–257a. Some video-on-demand services require viewers
to pay a small fee to view a selected program, but here
the proposal was to make Hillary available to viewers free
of charge.
To implement the proposal, Citizens United was prepared
to pay for the video-on-demand; and to promote the film, it
produced two 10-second ads and one 30-second ad for Hillary.
Each ad includes a short (and, in our view, pejorative)
statement about Senator Clinton, followed by the name of
the movie and the movie’s Web site address. Id., at 26a–27a.
Citizens United desired to promote the video-on-demand offering
by running advertisements on broadcast and cable
television.
B
Before the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
(BCRA), federal law prohibited—and still does prohibit—
corporations and unions from using general treasury funds
to make direct contributions to candidates or independent
expenditures that expressly advocate the election or defeat
of a candidate, through any form of media, in connection
with certain qualified federal elections. 2 U. S. C. § 441b
(2000 ed.); see McConnell, supra, at 204, and n. 87; Federal
Election Comm’n v. Massachusetts Citizens for Life, Inc.,
479 U. S. 238, 249 (1986) (MCFL). BCRA § 203 amendedCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 321
Opinion of the Court
§ 441b to prohibit any “electioneering communication” as
well. 2 U. S. C. § 441b(b)(2) (2006 ed.). An electioneering
communication is defined as “any broadcast, cable, or satellite
communication” that “refers to a clearly identified candidate
for Federal office” and is made within 30 days of a primary
or 60 days of a general election. § 434(f)(3)(A). The
Federal Election Commission’s (FEC) regulations further
define an electioneering communication as a communication
that is “publicly distributed.” 11 CFR § 100.29(a)(2) (2009).
“In the case of a candidate for nomination for President . . .
publicly distributed means” that the communication “[c]an
be received by 50,000 or more persons in a State where
a primary election . . . is being held within 30 days.”
§ 100.29(b)(3)(ii)(A). Corporations and unions are barred
from using their general treasury funds for express advocacy
or electioneering communications. They may establish, however,
a “separate segregated fund” (known as a political
action committee, or PAC) for these purposes. 2 U. S. C.
§ 441b(b)(2). The moneys received by the segregated fund
are limited to donations from stockholders and employees of
the corporation or, in the case of unions, members of the
union. Ibid.
C
Citizens United wanted to make Hillary available through
video-on-demand within 30 days of the 2008 primary elections.
It feared, however, that both the film and the ads
would be covered by § 441b’s ban on corporate-funded independent
expenditures, thus subjecting the corporation
to civil and criminal penalties under § 437g. In December
2007, Citizens United sought declaratory and injunctive relief
against the FEC. It argued that (1) § 441b is unconstitutional
as applied to Hillary; and (2) BCRA’s disclaimer
and disclosure requirements, BCRA §§ 201 and 311, 116 Stat.
88, 105, are unconstitutional as applied to Hillary and to the
three ads for the movie.322 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
The District Court denied Citizens United’s motion for a
preliminary injunction, 530 F. Supp. 2d 274 (DC 2008) (per
curiam), and then granted the FEC’s motion for summary
judgment, App. 261a–262a. See id., at 261a (“Based on the
reasoning of our prior opinion, we find that the [FEC] is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. See Citizen[s]
United v. FEC, 530 F. Supp. 2d 274 (D. D. C. 2008) (denying
Citizens United’s request for a preliminary injunction)”).
The court held that § 441b was facially constitutional under
McConnell, and that § 441b was constitutional as applied to
Hillary because it was “susceptible of no other interpretation
than to inform the electorate that Senator Clinton is
unfit for office, that the United States would be a dangerous
place in a President Hillary Clinton world, and that viewers
should vote against her.” 530 F. Supp. 2d, at 279. The
court also rejected Citizens United’s challenge to BCRA’s
disclaimer and disclosure requirements. It noted that “the
Supreme Court has written approvingly of disclosure provisions
triggered by political speech even though the speech
itself was constitutionally protected under the First Amendment.”
Id., at 281.
We noted probable jurisdiction. 555 U. S. 1028 (2008).
The case was reargued in this Court after the Court asked
the parties to file supplemental briefs addressing whether
we should overrule either or both Austin and the part of
McConnell which addresses the facial validity of 2 U. S. C.
§ 441b. See 557 U. S. 932 (2009).
II
Before considering whether Austin should be overruled,
we first address whether Citizens United’s claim that § 441b
cannot be applied to Hillary may be resolved on other, narrower
grounds.
A
Citizens United contends that § 441b does not cover Hillary,
as a matter of statutory interpretation, because the filmCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 323
Opinion of the Court
does not qualify as an “electioneering communication.”
§ 441b(b)(2). Citizens United raises this issue for the first
time before us, but we consider the issue because “it was
addressed by the court below.” Lebron v. National Railroad
Passenger Corporation, 513 U. S. 374, 379 (1995); see
530 F. Supp. 2d, at 277, n. 6. Under the definition of electioneering
communication, the video-on-demand showing of
Hillary on cable television would have been a “cable . . .
communication” that “refer[red] to a clearly identified candidate
for Federal office” and that was made within 30 days
of a primary election. 2 U. S. C. § 434(f)(3)(A)(i). Citizens
United, however, argues that Hillary was not “publicly
distributed,” because a single video-on-demand transmission
is sent only to a requesting cable converter box and each
separate transmission, in most instances, will be seen by
just one household—not 50,000 or more persons. 11 CFR
§ 100.29(a)(2); see § 100.29(b)(3)(ii).
This argument ignores the regulation’s instruction on how
to determine whether a cable transmission “[c]an be received
by 50,000 or more persons.” § 100.29(b)(3)(ii). The regulation
provides that the number of people who can receive
a cable transmission is determined by the number of cable
subscribers in the relevant area. §§ 100.29(b)(7)(i)(G), (ii).
Here, Citizens United wanted to use a cable video-ondemand
system that had 34.5 million subscribers nationwide.
App. 256a. Thus, Hillary could have been received by
50,000 persons or more.
One amici brief asks us, alternatively, to construe the condition
that the communication “[c]an be received by 50,000
or more persons,” § 100.29(b)(3)(ii)(A), to require “a plausible
likelihood that the communication will be viewed by 50,000
or more potential voters”—as opposed to requiring only that
the communication is “technologically capable” of being seen
by that many people, Brief for Former Officials of the American
Civil Liberties Union 5. Whether the population and
demographic statistics in a proposed viewing area consisted324 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
of 50,000 registered voters—but not “infants, pre-teens, or
otherwise electorally ineligible recipients”—would be a required
determination, subject to judicial challenge and review,
in any case where the issue was in doubt. Id., at 6.
In our view the statute cannot be saved by limiting the
reach of 2 U. S. C. § 441b through this suggested interpretation.
In addition to the costs and burdens of litigation, this
result would require a calculation as to the number of people
a particular communication is likely to reach, with an inaccurate
estimate potentially subjecting the speaker to criminal
sanctions. The First Amendment does not permit laws that
force speakers to retain a campaign finance attorney, conduct
demographic marketing research, or seek declaratory
rulings before discussing the most salient political issues of
our day. Prolix laws chill speech for the same reason that
vague laws chill speech: People “of common intelligence must
necessarily guess at [the law’s] meaning and differ as to its
application.” Connally v. General Constr. Co., 269 U. S. 385,
391 (1926). The Government may not render a ban on political
speech constitutional by carving out a limited exemption
through an amorphous regulatory interpretation. We must
reject the approach suggested by the amici. Section 441b
covers Hillary.
B
Citizens United next argues that § 441b may not be applied
to Hillary under the approach taken in WRTL. McConnell
decided that § 441b(b)(2)’s definition of an “electioneering
communication” was facially constitutional insofar as it restricted
speech that was “the functional equivalent of express
advocacy” for or against a specific candidate. 540
U. S., at 206. WRTL then found an unconstitutional application
of § 441b where the speech was not “express advocacy
or its functional equivalent.” 551 U. S., at 481 (opinion of
Roberts, C. J.). As explained by The Chief Justice’s
controlling opinion in WRTL, the functional-equivalent test
is objective: “[A] court should find that [a communication] isCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 325
Opinion of the Court
the functional equivalent of express advocacy only if [it] is
susceptible of no reasonable interpretation other than as an
appeal to vote for or against a specific candidate.” Id., at
469–470.
Under this test, Hillary is equivalent to express advocacy.
The movie, in essence, is a feature-length negative advertisement
that urges viewers to vote against Senator Clinton for
President. In light of historical footage, interviews with
persons critical of her, and voiceover narration, the film
would be understood by most viewers as an extended criticism
of Senator Clinton’s character and her fitness for the
office of the Presidency. The narrative may contain more
suggestions and arguments than facts, but there is little
doubt that the thesis of the film is that she is unfit for the
Presidency. The movie concentrates on alleged wrongdoing
during the Clinton administration, Senator Clinton’s qualifications
and fitness for office, and policies the commentators
predict she would pursue if elected President. It calls Senator
Clinton “Machiavellian,” App. 64a, and asks whether she
is “the most qualified to hit the ground running if elected
President,” id., at 88a. The narrator reminds viewers that
“Americans have never been keen on dynasties” and that
“a vote for Hillary is a vote to continue 20 years of a Bush
or a Clinton in the White House,” id., at 143a–144a.
Citizens United argues that Hillary is just “a documentary
film that examines certain historical events.” Brief for
Appellant 35. We disagree. The movie’s consistent emphasis
is on the relevance of these events to Senator Clinton’s
candidacy for President. The narrator begins by asking
“could [Senator Clinton] become the first female President
in the history of the United States?” App. 35a. And the
narrator reiterates the movie’s message in his closing line:
“Finally, before America decides on our next president, voters
should need no reminders of . . . what’s at stake—the
well being and prosperity of our nation.” Id., at 144a–145a.326 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
As the District Court found, there is no reasonable interpretation
of Hillary other than as an appeal to vote against
Senator Clinton. Under the standard stated in McConnell
and further elaborated in WRTL, the film qualifies as the
functional equivalent of express advocacy.
C
Citizens United further contends that § 441b should be invalidated
as applied to movies shown through video-ondemand,
arguing that this delivery system has a lower risk
of distorting the political process than do television ads.
Cf. McConnell, supra, at 207. On what we might call conventional
television, advertising spots reach viewers who
have chosen a channel or a program for reasons unrelated
to the advertising. With video-on-demand, by contrast, the
viewer selects a program after taking “a series of affirmative
steps”: subscribing to cable; navigating through various
menus; and selecting the program. See Reno v. American
Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844, 867 (1997).
While some means of communication may be less effective
than others at influencing the public in different contexts,
any effort by the Judiciary to decide which means of communications
are to be preferred for the particular type of
message and speaker would raise questions as to the courts’
own lawful authority. Substantial questions would arise if
courts were to begin saying what means of speech should be
preferred or disfavored. And in all events, those differentiations
might soon prove to be irrelevant or outdated by technologies
that are in rapid flux. See Turner Broadcasting
System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622, 639 (1994).
Courts, too, are bound by the First Amendment. We
must decline to draw, and then redraw, constitutional lines
based on the particular media or technology used to disseminate
political speech from a particular speaker. It must be
noted, moreover, that this undertaking would require substantial
litigation over an extended time, all to interpret aCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 327
Opinion of the Court
law that beyond doubt discloses serious First Amendment
flaws. The interpretive process itself would create an inevitable,
pervasive, and serious risk of chilling protected speech
pending the drawing of fine distinctions that, in the end,
would themselves be questionable. First Amendment
standards, however, “must give the benefit of any doubt to
protecting rather than stifling speech.” WRTL, 551 U. S., at
469 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (citing New York Times Co.
v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254, 269–270 (1964)).
D
Citizens United also asks us to carve out an exception to
§ 441b’s expenditure ban for nonprofit corporate political
speech funded overwhelmingly by individuals. As an alternative
to reconsidering Austin, the Government also seems
to prefer this approach. This line of analysis, however,
would be unavailing.
In MCFL, the Court found unconstitutional § 441b’s restrictions
on corporate expenditures as applied to nonprofit
corporations that were formed for the sole purpose of promoting
political ideas, did not engage in business activities,
and did not accept contributions from for-profit corporations
or labor unions. 479 U. S., at 263–264; see also 11 CFR
§ 114.10. BCRA’s so-called Wellstone Amendment applied
§ 441b’s expenditure ban to all nonprofit corporations. See
2 U. S. C. § 441b(c)(6); McConnell, 540 U. S., at 209. McConnell
then interpreted the Wellstone Amendment to retain
the MCFL exemption to § 441b’s expenditure prohibition.
540 U. S., at 211. Citizens United does not qualify for the
MCFL exemption, however, since some funds used to make
the movie were donations from for-profit corporations.
The Government suggests we could find BCRA’s Wellstone
Amendment unconstitutional, sever it from the statute, and
hold that Citizens United’s speech is exempt from § 441b’s
ban under BCRA’s Snowe-Jeffords Amendment, § 441b(c)(2).
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 37–38 (Sept. 9, 2009). The Snowe-
Jeffords Amendment operates as a backup provision that328 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
only takes effect if the Wellstone Amendment is invalidated.
See McConnell, supra, at 339 (Kennedy, J., concurring
in judgment in part and dissenting in part). The Snowe-
Jeffords Amendment would exempt from § 441b’s expenditure
ban the political speech of certain nonprofit corporations
if the speech were funded “exclusively” by individual donors
and the funds were maintained in a segregated account.
§ 441b(c)(2). Citizens United would not qualify for the
Snowe-Jeffords exemption, under its terms as written, because
Hillary was funded in part with donations from for-
profit corporations.
Consequently, to hold for Citizens United on this argument,
the Court would be required to revise the text of
MCFL, sever BCRA’s Wellstone Amendment, § 441b(c)(6),
and ignore the plain text of BCRA’s Snowe-Jeffords Amendment,
§ 441b(c)(2). If the Court decided to create a de mini-
mis exception to MCFL or the Snowe-Jeffords Amendment,
the result would be to allow for-profit corporate general
treasury funds to be spent for independent expenditures that
support candidates. There is no principled basis for doing
this without rewriting Austin’s holding that the Government
can restrict corporate independent expenditures for political
speech.
Though it is true that the Court should construe statutes
as necessary to avoid constitutional questions, the series of
steps suggested would be difficult to take in view of the language
of the statute. In addition to those difficulties the
Government’s suggestion is troubling for still another reason.
The Government does not say that it agrees with the
interpretation it wants us to consider. See Supp. Brief for
Appellee 3, n. 1 (“Some courts” have implied a de minimis
exception, and “appellant would appear to be covered by
these decisions”). Presumably it would find textual difficulties
in this approach too. The Government, like any
party, can make arguments in the alternative; but it ought
to say if there is merit to an alternative proposal instead ofCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 329
Opinion of the Court
merely suggesting it. This is especially true in the context
of the First Amendment. As the Government stated, this
case “would require a remand” to apply a de minimis standard.
Tr. of Oral Arg. 39 (Sept. 9, 2009). Applying this
standard would thus require case-by-case determinations.
But archetypical political speech would be chilled in the
meantime. “ ‘First Amendment freedoms need breathing
space to survive.’ ” WRTL, supra, at 468–469 (opinion of
Roberts, C. J.) (quoting NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415,
433 (1963)). We decline to adopt an interpretation that
requires intricate case-by-case determinations to verify
whether political speech is banned, especially if we are convinced
that, in the end, this corporation has a constitutional
right to speak on this subject.
E
As the foregoing analysis confirms, the Court cannot resolve
this case on a narrower ground without chilling political
speech, speech that is central to the meaning and purpose
of the First Amendment. See Morse v. Frederick, 551 U. S.
393, 403 (2007). It is not judicial restraint to accept an unsound,
narrow argument just so the Court can avoid another
argument with broader implications. Indeed, a court would
be remiss in performing its duties were it to accept an unsound
principle merely to avoid the necessity of making a
broader ruling. Here, the lack of a valid basis for an alternative
ruling requires full consideration of the continuing effect
of the speech suppression upheld in Austin.
Citizens United stipulated to dismissing count 5 of its complaint,
which raised a facial challenge to § 441b, even though
count 3 raised an as-applied challenge. See App. 23a (count
3: “As applied to Hillary, [§ 441b] is unconstitutional under
the First Amendment guarantees of free expression and association”).
The Government argues that Citizens United
waived its challenge to Austin by dismissing count 5. We
disagree.330 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
First, even if a party could somehow waive a facial challenge
while preserving an as-applied challenge, that would
not prevent the Court from reconsidering Austin or addressing
the facial validity of § 441b in this case. “Our practice
‘permit[s] review of an issue not pressed [below] so long as
it has been passed upon . . . .’ ” Lebron, 513 U. S., at 379
(quoting United States v. Williams, 504 U. S. 36, 41 (1992);
first alteration in original). And here, the District Court
addressed Citizens United’s facial challenge. See 530
F. Supp. 2d, at 278 (“Citizens wants us to enjoin the operation
of BCRA § 203 as a facially unconstitutional burden on
the First Amendment right to freedom of speech”). In rejecting
the claim, it noted that it “would have to overrule
McConnell” for Citizens United to prevail on its facial challenge
and that “[o]nly the Supreme Court may overrule its
decisions.” Ibid. (citing Rodriguez de Quijas v. Shearson/
American Express, Inc., 490 U. S. 477, 484 (1989)). The District
Court did not provide much analysis regarding the facial
challenge because it could not ignore the controlling Supreme
Court decisions in Austin and McConnell. Even so,
the District Court did “ ‘pas[s] upon’ ” the issue. Lebron,
supra, at 379. Furthermore, the District Court’s later
opinion, which granted the FEC summary judgment, was
“[b]ased on the reasoning of [its] prior opinion,” which included
the discussion of the facial challenge. App. 261a (citing
530 F. Supp. 2d 274). After the District Court addressed
the facial validity of the statute, Citizens United
raised its challenge to Austin in this Court. See Brief for
Appellant 30 (“Austin was wrongly decided and should be
overruled”); id., at 30–32. In these circumstances, it is necessary
to consider Citizens United’s challenge to Austin and
the facial validity of § 441b’s expenditure ban.
Second, throughout the litigation, Citizens United has asserted
a claim that the FEC has violated its First Amendment
right to free speech. All concede that this claim is
properly before us. And “ ‘[o]nce a federal claim is properlyCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 331
Opinion of the Court
presented, a party can make any argument in support of that
claim; parties are not limited to the precise arguments they
made below.’ ” Lebron, supra, at 379 (quoting Yee v. Escondido,
503 U. S. 519, 534 (1992); alteration in original). Citizens
United’s argument that Austin should be overruled is
“not a new claim.” Lebron, 513 U. S., at 379. Rather, it
is—at most—“a new argument to support what has been [a]
consistent claim: that [the FEC] did not accord [Citizens
United] the rights it was obliged to provide by the First
Amendment.” Ibid.
Third, the distinction between facial and as-applied challenges
is not so well defined that it has some automatic effect
or that it must always control the pleadings and disposition
in every case involving a constitutional challenge. The distinction
is both instructive and necessary, for it goes to the
breadth of the remedy employed by the Court, not what
must be pleaded in a complaint. See United States v. Treasury
Employees, 513 U. S. 454, 477–478 (1995) (contrasting
“a facial challenge” with “a narrower remedy”). The parties
cannot enter into a stipulation that prevents the Court from
considering certain remedies if those remedies are necessary
to resolve a claim that has been preserved. Citizens United
has preserved its First Amendment challenge to § 441b as
applied to the facts of its case; and given all the circumstances,
we cannot easily address that issue without assuming
a premise—the permissibility of restricting corporate
political speech—that is itself in doubt. See Fallon,
As-Applied and Facial Challenges and Third-Party Standing,
113 Harv. L. Rev. 1321, 1339 (2000) (“[O]nce a case is brought,
no general categorical line bars a court from making broader
pronouncements of invalidity in properly ‘as-applied’ cases”);
id., at 1327–1328. As our request for supplemental briefing
implied, Citizens United’s claim implicates the validity of
Austin, which in turn implicates the facial validity of § 441b.
When the statute now at issue came before the Court in
McConnell, both the majority and the dissenting opinions332 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
considered the question of its facial validity. The holding
and validity of Austin were essential to the reasoning of the
McConnell majority opinion, which upheld BCRA’s extension
of § 441b. See 540 U. S., at 205 (quoting Austin, 494
U. S., at 660). McConnell permitted federal felony punishment
for speech by all corporations, including nonprofit ones,
that speak on prohibited subjects shortly before federal elections.
See 540 U. S., at 203–209. Four Members of the McConnell
Court would have overruled Austin, including Chief
Justice Rehnquist, who had joined the Court’s opinion in
Austin but reconsidered that conclusion. See 540 U. S., at
256–262 (Scalia, J., concurring in part, concurring in judgment
in part, and dissenting in part); id., at 273–275
(Thomas, J., concurring in part, concurring in result in part,
concurring in judgment in part, and dissenting in part); id.,
at 322–338 (opinion of Kennedy, J., joined by Rehnquist,
C. J., and Scalia, J.). That inquiry into the facial validity
of the statute was facilitated by the extensive record, which
was “over 100,000 pages” long, made in the three-judge District
Court. McConnell v. Federal Election Comm’n, 251
F. Supp. 2d 176, 209 (DC 2003) (per curiam) (McConnell I).
It is not the case, then, that the Court today is premature in
interpreting § 441b “ ‘on the basis of [a] factually barebones
recor[d].’ ” Washington State Grange v. Washington State
Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 450 (2008) (quoting Sabri v.
United States, 541 U. S. 600, 609 (2004)).
The McConnell majority considered whether the statute
was facially invalid. An as-applied challenge was brought
in Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc. v. Federal Election Comm’n,
546 U. S. 410, 411–412 (2006) (per curiam), and the Court
confirmed that the challenge could be maintained. Then, in
WRTL, the controlling opinion of the Court not only entertained
an as-applied challenge but also sustained it. Three
Justices noted that they would continue to maintain the position
that the record in McConnell demonstrated the invalidity
of the Act on its face. 551 U. S., at 485–504 (opinion ofCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 333
Opinion of the Court
Scalia, J.). The controlling opinion in WRTL, which refrained
from holding the statute invalid except as applied to
the facts then before the Court, was a careful attempt to
accept the essential elements of the Court’s opinion in McConnell,
while vindicating the First Amendment arguments
made by the WRTL parties. 551 U. S., at 482 (opinion of
Roberts, C. J.).
As noted above, Citizens United’s narrower arguments are
not sustainable under a fair reading of the statute. In the
exercise of its judicial responsibility, it is necessary then for
the Court to consider the facial validity of § 441b. Any other
course of decision would prolong the substantial, nationwide
chilling effect caused by § 441b’s prohibitions on corporate
expenditures. Consideration of the facial validity of § 441b
is further supported by the following reasons.
First is the uncertainty caused by the litigating position
of the Government. As discussed above, see Part II–D,
supra, the Government suggests, as an alternative argument,
that an as-applied challenge might have merit. This
argument proceeds on the premise that the nonprofit corporation
involved here may have received only de minimis donations
from for-profit corporations and that some nonprofit
corporations may be exempted from the operation of the
statute. The Government also suggests that an as-applied
challenge to § 441b’s ban on books may be successful, although
it would defend § 441b’s ban as applied to almost
every other form of media including pamphlets. See Tr. of
Oral Arg. 65–66 (Sept. 9, 2009). The Government thus, by
its own position, contributes to the uncertainty that § 441b
causes. When the Government holds out the possibility of
ruling for Citizens United on a narrow ground yet refrains
from adopting that position, the added uncertainty demonstrates
the necessity to address the question of statutory
validity.
Second, substantial time would be required to bring clarity
to the application of the statutory provision on these points334 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
in order to avoid any chilling effect caused by some improper
interpretation. See Part II–C, supra. It is well known
that the public begins to concentrate on elections only in the
weeks immediately before they are held. There are short
timeframes in which speech can have influence. The need
or relevance of the speech will often first be apparent at this
stage in the campaign. The decision to speak is made in the
heat of political campaigns, when speakers react to messages
conveyed by others. A speaker’s ability to engage in political
speech that could have a chance of persuading voters is
stifled if the speaker must first commence a protracted lawsuit.
By the time the lawsuit concludes, the election will be
over and the litigants in most cases will have neither the
incentive nor, perhaps, the resources to carry on, even if they
could establish that the case is not moot because the issue is
“capable of repetition, yet evading review.” WRTL, supra,
at 462 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (citing Los Angeles v.
Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 109 (1983); Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v. ICC, 219 U. S. 498, 515 (1911)). Here, Citizens United
decided to litigate its case to the end. Today, Citizens
United finally learns, two years after the fact, whether it
could have spoken during the 2008 Presidential primary—
long after the opportunity to persuade primary voters has
passed.
Third is the primary importance of speech itself to the
integrity of the election process. As additional rules are
created for regulating political speech, any speech arguably
within their reach is chilled. See Part II–A, supra. Campaign
finance regulations now impose “unique and complex
rules” on “71 distinct entities.” Brief for Seven Former
Chairmen of FEC et al. as Amici Curiae 11–12. These entities
are subject to separate rules for 33 different types of
political speech. Id., at 14–15, n. 10. The FEC has adopted
568 pages of regulations, 1,278 pages of explanations and justifications
for those regulations, and 1,771 advisory opinions
since 1975. See id., at 6, n. 7. In fact, after this Court inCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 335
Opinion of the Court
WRTL adopted an objective “appeal to vote” test for determining
whether a communication was the functional equivalent
of express advocacy, 551 U. S., at 470 (opinion of Roberts,
C. J.), the FEC adopted a two-part, 11-factor balancing
test to implement WRTL’s ruling. See 11 CFR § 114.15;
Brief for Wyoming Liberty Group et al. as Amici Curiae
17–27 (filed Jan. 15, 2009).
This regulatory scheme may not be a prior restraint on
speech in the strict sense of that term, for prospective speakers
are not compelled by law to seek an advisory opinion
from the FEC before the speech takes place. Cf. Near v.
Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697, 712–713 (1931). As
a practical matter, however, given the complexity of the regulations
and the deference courts show to administrative determinations,
a speaker who wants to avoid threats of criminal
liability and the heavy costs of defending against FEC
enforcement must ask a governmental agency for prior permission
to speak. See 2 U. S. C. § 437f; 11 CFR § 112.1.
These onerous restrictions thus function as the equivalent of
prior restraint by giving the FEC power analogous to licensing
laws implemented in 1

ction as the equivalent of
prior restraint by giving the FEC power analogous to licensing
laws implemented in 16th- and 17th-century England,
laws and governmental practices of the sort that the First
Amendment was drawn to prohibit. See Thomas v. Chicago
Park Dist., 534 U. S. 316, 320 (2002); Lovell v. City of Griffin,
303 U. S. 444, 451–452 (1938); Near, supra, at 713–714. Because
the FEC’s “business is to censor, there inheres the
danger that [it] may well be less responsive than a court—
part of an independent branch of government—to the constitutionally
protected interests in free expression.” Freedman
v. Maryland, 380 U. S. 51, 57–58 (1965). When the
FEC issues advisory opinions that prohibit speech, “[m]any
persons, rather than undertake the considerable burden (and
sometimes risk) of vindicating their rights through case-bycase
litigation, will choose simply to abstain from protected
speech—harming not only themselves but society as a whole,
which is deprived of an uninhibited marketplace of ideas.”336 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Virginia v. Hicks, 539 U. S. 113, 119 (2003) (citation omitted).
Consequently, “the censor’s determination may in practice
be final.” Freedman, supra, at 58.
This is precisely what WRTL sought to avoid. WRTL
said that First Amendment standards “must eschew ‘the
open-ended rough-and-tumble of factors,’ which ‘invit[es]
complex argument in a trial court and a virtually inevitable
appeal.’ ” 551 U. S., at 469 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (quoting
Jerome B. Grubart, Inc. v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
Co., 513 U. S. 527, 547 (1995); alteration in original). Yet,
the FEC has created a regime that allows it to select what
political speech is safe for public consumption by applying
ambiguous tests. If parties want to avoid litigation and the
possibility of civil and criminal penalties, they must either
refrain from speaking or ask the FEC to issue an advisory
opinion approving of the political speech in question. Government
officials pore over each word of a text to see if, in
their judgment, it accords with the 11-factor test they have
promulgated. This is an unprecedented governmental intervention
into the realm of speech.
The ongoing chill upon speech that is beyond all doubt protected
makes it necessary in this case to invoke the earlier
precedents that a statute which chills speech can and must
be invalidated where its facial invalidity has been demonstrated.
See WRTL, supra, at 482–483 (Alito, J., concurring);
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 97–98 (1940). For
these reasons we find it necessary to reconsider Austin.
III
The First Amendment provides that “Congress shall make
no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech.” Laws enacted
to control or suppress speech may operate at different points
in the speech process. The following are just a few examples
of restrictions that have been attempted at different
stages of the speech process—all laws found to be invalid:
restrictions requiring a permit at the outset, WatchtowerCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 337
Opinion of the Court
Bible & Tract Soc. of N. Y., Inc. v. Village of Stratton, 536
U. S. 150, 153 (2002); imposing a burden by impounding proceeds
on receipts or royalties, Simon & Schuster, Inc. v.
Members of N. Y. State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105,
108, 123 (1991); seeking to exact a cost after the speech occurs,
New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S., at 267; and
subjecting the speaker to criminal penalties, Brandenburg v.
Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 445 (1969) (per curiam).
The law before us is an outright ban, backed by criminal
sanctions. Section 441b makes it a felony for all corporations—including
nonprofit advocacy corporations—either to
expressly advocate the election or defeat of candidates or to
broadcast electioneering communications within 30 days of a
primary election and 60 days of a general election. Thus,
the following acts would all be felonies under § 441b: The
Sierra Club runs an ad, within the crucial phase of 60 days
before the general election, that exhorts the public to disapprove
of a Congressman who favors logging in national forests;
the National Rifle Association publishes a book urging
the public to vote for the challenger because the incumbent
U. S. Senator supports a handgun ban; and the American
Civil Liberties Union creates a Web site telling the public to
vote for a Presidential candidate in light of that candidate’s
defense of free speech. These prohibitions are classic examples
of censorship.
Section 441b is a ban on corporate speech notwithstanding
the fact that a PAC created by a corporation can still speak.
See McConnell, 540 U. S., at 330–333 (opinion of Kennedy,
J.). A PAC is a separate association from the corporation.
So the PAC exemption from § 441b’s expenditure ban,
§ 441b(b)(2), does not allow corporations to speak. Even if a
PAC could somehow allow a corporation to speak—and it
does not—the option to form PACs does not alleviate the
First Amendment problems with § 441b. PACs are burdensome
alternatives; they are expensive to administer and
subject to extensive regulations. For example, every PAC338 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
must appoint a treasurer, forward donations to the treasurer
promptly, keep detailed records of the identities of the persons
making donations, preserve receipts for three years,
and file an organization statement and report changes to this
information within 10 days. See id., at 330–332 (quoting
MCFL, 479 U. S., at 253–254 (opinion of Brennan, J.)).
And that is just the beginning. PACs must file detailed
monthly reports with the FEC, which are due at different
times depending on the type of election that is about to
occur:
“ ‘These reports must contain information regarding the
amount of cash on hand; the total amount of receipts,
detailed by 10 different categories; the identification of
each political committee and candidate’s authorized or
affiliated committee making contributions, and any persons
making loans, providing rebates, refunds, dividends,
or interest or any other offset to operating expenditures
in an aggregate amount over $200; the total
amount of all disbursements, detailed by 12 different
categories; the names of all authorized or affiliated committees
to whom expenditures aggregating over $200
have been made; persons to whom loan repayments or
refunds have been made; the total sum of all contributions,
operating expenses, outstanding debts and obligations,
and the settlement terms of the retirement of any
debt or obligation.’ ” 540 U. S., at 331–332 (quoting
MCFL, supra, at 253–254).
PACs have to comply with these regulations just to speak.
This might explain why fewer than 2,000 of the millions
of corporations in this country have PACs. See Brief for
Seven Former Chairmen of FEC et al. as Amici Curiae 11
(citing FEC, Summary of PAC Activity 1990–2006, online at
http://www.fec.gov/press/press2007/20071009pac/sumhistory
.pdf (as visited Jan. 18, 2010, and available in Clerk of Court’s
case file)); IRS, Statistics of Income: 2006, Corporation InCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 339
Opinion of the Court
come Tax Returns 2 (2009) (hereinafter Statistics of Income)
(5.8 million for-profit corporations filed 2006 tax returns).
PACs, furthermore, must exist before they can speak.
Given the onerous restrictions, a corporation may not be able
to establish a PAC in time to make its views known regarding
candidates and issues in a current campaign.
Section 441b’s prohibition on corporate independent expenditures
is thus a ban on speech. As a “restriction on the
amount of money a person or group can spend on political
communication during a campaign,” that statute “necessarily
reduces the quantity of expression by restricting the number
of issues discussed, the depth of their exploration, and the
size of the audience reached.” Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S.
1, 19 (1976) (per curiam). Were the Court to uphold these
restrictions, the Government could repress speech by silencing
certain voices at any of the various points in the
speech process. See McConnell, supra, at 251 (opinion of
Scalia, J.) (Government could repress speech by “attacking
all levels of the production and dissemination of ideas,” for
“effective public communication requires the speaker to
make use of the services of others”). If § 441b applied to
individuals, no one would believe that it is merely a time,
place, or manner restriction on speech. Its purpose and effect
are to silence entities whose voices the Government
deems to be suspect.
Speech is an essential mechanism of democracy, for it is
the means to hold officials accountable to the people. See
Buckley, supra, at 14–15 (“In a republic where the people
are sovereign, the ability of the citizenry to make informed
choices among candidates for office is essential”). The right
of citizens to inquire, to hear, to speak, and to use information
to reach consensus is a precondition to enlightened self-
government and a necessary means to protect it. The First
Amendment “ ‘has its fullest and most urgent application’ to
speech uttered during a campaign for political office.” Eu
v. San Francisco County Democratic Central Comm., 489340 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
U. S. 214, 223 (1989) (quoting Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, 401
U. S. 265, 272 (1971)); see Buckley, supra, at 14 (“Discussion
of public issues and debate on the qualifications of candidates
are integral to the operation of the system of government
established by our Constitution”).
For these reasons, political speech must prevail against
laws that would suppress it, whether by design or inadvertence.
Laws that burden political speech are “subject to
strict scrutiny,” which requires the Government to prove
that the restriction “furthers a compelling interest and is
narrowly tailored to achieve that interest.” WRTL, 551
U. S., at 464 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.). While it might be
maintained that political speech simply cannot be banned or
restricted as a categorical matter, see Simon & Schuster, 502
U. S., at 124 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment), the
quoted language from WRTL provides a sufficient framework
for protecting the relevant First Amendment interests
in this case. We shall employ it here.
Premised on mistrust of governmental power, the First
Amendment stands against attempts to disfavor certain subjects
or viewpoints. See, e. g., United States v. Playboy Entertainment
Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 813 (2000) (striking
down content-based restriction). Prohibited, too, are restrictions
distinguishing among different speakers, allowing
speech by some but not others. See First Nat. Bank of Boston
v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 784 (1978). As instruments to
censor, these categories are interrelated: Speech restrictions
based on the identity of the speaker are all too often simply
a means to control content.
Quite apart from the purpose or effect of regulating content,
moreover, the Government may commit a constitutional
wrong when by law it identifies certain preferred speakers.
By taking the right to speak from some and giving it to others,
the Government deprives the disadvantaged person or
class of the right to use speech to strive to establish worth,Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 341
Opinion of the Court
standing, and respect for the speaker’s voice. The Government
may not by these means deprive the public of the right
and privilege to determine for itself what speech and speakers
are worthy of consideration. The First Amendment protects
speech and speaker, and the ideas that flow from each.
The Court has upheld a narrow class of speech restrictions
that operate to the disadvantage of certain persons, but
these rulings were based on an interest in allowing governmental
entities to perform their functions. See, e. g., Bethel
School Dist. No. 403 v. Fraser, 478 U. S. 675, 683 (1986) (protecting
the “function of public school education”); Jones v.
North Carolina Prisoners’ Labor Union, Inc., 433 U. S. 119,
129 (1977) (furthering “the legitimate penological objectives
of the corrections system” (internal quotation marks omitted));
Parker v. Levy, 417 U. S. 733, 759 (1974) (ensuring
“the capacity of the Government to discharge its [military]
responsibilities” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Civil
Service Comm’n v. Letter Carriers, 413 U. S. 548, 557 (1973)
(“[F]ederal service should depend upon meritorious performance
rather than political service”). The corporate independent
expenditures at issue in this case, however, would
not interfere with governmental functions, so these cases are
inapposite. These precedents stand only for the proposition
that there are certain governmental functions that cannot
operate without some restrictions on particular kinds of
speech. By contrast, it is inherent in the nature of the political
process that voters must be free to obtain information
from diverse sources in order to determine how to cast their
votes. At least before Austin, the Court had not allowed
the exclusion of a class of speakers from the general public
dialogue.
We find no basis for the proposition that, in the context of
political speech, the Government may impose restrictions on
certain disfavored speakers. Both history and logic lead us
to this conclusion.342 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
A
1
The Court has recognized that First Amendment protection
extends to corporations. Bellotti, supra, at 778, n. 14
(citing Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Willingboro, 431 U. S. 85
(1977); Time, Inc. v. Firestone, 424 U. S. 448 (1976); Doran v.
Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U. S. 922 (1975); Southeastern Promotions,
Ltd. v. Conrad, 420 U. S. 546 (1975); Cox Broadcasting
Corp. v. Cohn, 420 U. S. 469 (1975); Miami Herald Publishing
Co. v. Tornillo, 418 U. S. 241 (1974); New York Times Co.
v. United States, 403 U. S. 713 (1971) (per curiam); Time,
Inc. v. Hill, 385 U. S. 374 (1967); New York Times Co. v. Sullivan,
376 U. S. 254; Kingsley Int’l Pictures Corp. v. Regents
of Univ. of N. Y., 360 U. S. 684 (1959); Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v.
Wilson, 343 U. S. 495 (1952)); see, e. g., Turner Broadcasting
System, Inc. v. FCC, 520 U. S. 180 (1997); Denver Area Ed.
Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S. 727
(1996); Turner, 512 U. S. 622; Simon & Schuster, 502 U. S.
105; Sable Communications of Cal., Inc. v. FCC, 492 U. S.
115 (1989); Florida Star v. B. J. F., 491 U. S. 524 (1989); Philadelphia
Newspapers, Inc. v. Hepps, 475 U. S. 767 (1986);
Landmark Communications, Inc. v. Virginia, 435 U. S. 829
(1978); Young v. American Mini Theatres, Inc., 427 U. S. 50
(1976); Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U. S. 323 (1974);
Greenbelt Cooperative Publishing Assn., Inc. v. Bresler, 398
U. S. 6 (1970).
This protection has been extended by explicit holdings to
the context of political speech. See, e. g., Button, 371 U. S.,
at 428–429; Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233,
244 (1936). Under the rationale of these precedents, political
speech does not lose First Amendment protection “simply
because its source is a corporation.” Bellotti, supra, at 784;
see Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. Public Util. Comm’n of Cal.,
475 U. S. 1, 8 (1986) (plurality opinion) (“The identity of the
speaker is not decisive in determining whether speech is proCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 343
Opinion of the Court
tected. Corporations and other associations, like individuals,
contribute to the ‘discussion, debate, and the dissemination
of information and ideas’ that the First Amendment
seeks to foster” (quoting Bellotti, 435 U. S., at 783)). The
Court has thus rejected the argument that political speech
of corporations or other associations should be treated differently
under the First Amendment simply because such associations
are not “natural persons.” Id., at 776; see id., at
780, n. 16. Cf. id., at 828 (Rehnquist, J., dissenting).
At least since the latter part of the 19th century, the laws
of some States and of the United States imposed a ban on
corporate direct contributions to candidates. See B. Smith,
Unfree Speech: The Folly of Campaign Finance Reform 23
(2001). Yet not until 1947 did Congress first prohibit independent
expenditures by corporations and labor unions in
§ 304 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, 61 Stat.
159 (codified at 2 U. S. C. § 251 (1946 ed., Supp. I)). In passing
this Act Congress overrode the veto of President Truman,
who warned that the expenditure ban was a “dangerous
intrusion on free speech.” Message from the President of
the United States, H. R. Doc. No. 334, 80th Cong., 1st Sess.,
9 (1947).
For almost three decades thereafter, the Court did not
reach the question whether restrictions on corporate and
union expenditures are constitutional. See WRTL, 551
U. S., at 502 (opinion of Scalia, J.). The question was in
the background of United States v. CIO, 335 U. S. 106 (1948).
There, a labor union endorsed a congressional candidate in
its weekly periodical. The Court stated that “the gravest
doubt would arise in our minds as to [the federal expenditure
prohibition’s] constitutionality” if it were construed to suppress
that writing. Id., at 121. The Court engaged in statutory
interpretation and found the statute did not cover the
publication. Id., at 121–122, and n. 20. Four Justices, however,
said they would reach the constitutional question and
invalidate the Labor-Management Relations Act’s expendi344 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
ture ban. Id., at 155 (Rutledge, J., joined by Black, Douglas,
and Murphy, JJ., concurring in result). The concurrence explained
that any “ ‘undue influence’ ” generated by a speaker’s
“large expenditures” was outweighed “by the loss for
democratic processes resulting from the restrictions upon
free and full public discussion.” Id., at 143.
In United States v. Automobile Workers, 352 U. S. 567
(1957), the Court again encountered the independent expenditure
ban, which had been recodified at 18 U. S. C. § 610 (1952
ed.). See 62 Stat. 723–724. After holding only that a union
television broadcast that endorsed candidates was covered
by the statute, the Court “[r]efus[ed] to anticipate constitutional
questions” and remanded for the trial to proceed.
352 U. S., at 591. Three Justices dissented, arguing
that the Court should have reached the constitutional question
and that the ban on independent expenditures was
unconstitutional:
“Under our Constitution it is We The People who are
sovereign. The people have the final say. The legislators
are their spokesmen. The people determine
through their votes the destiny of the nation. It is
therefore important—vitally important—that all channels
of communication be open to them during every
election, that no point of view be restrained or barred,
and that the people have access to the views of every
group in the community.” Id., at 593 (opinion of Douglas,
J., joined by Warren, C. J., and Black, J.).
The dissent concluded that deeming a particular group “too
powerful” was not a “justificatio[n] for withholding First
Amendment rights from any group—labor or corporate.”
Id., at 597. The Court did not get another opportunity to
consider the constitutional question in that case; for after a
remand, a jury found the defendants not guilty. See Hayward,
Revisiting the Fable of Reform, 45 Harv. J. Legis. 421,
463 (2008).Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 345
Opinion of the Court
Later, in Pipefitters v. United States, 407 U. S. 385, 400–
401 (1972), the Court reversed a conviction for expenditure
of union funds for political speech—again without reaching
the constitutional question. The Court would not resolve
that question for another four years.
2
In Buckley, 424 U. S. 1, the Court addressed various challenges
to the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(FECA) as amended in 1974. These amendments created
18 U. S. C. § 608(e) (1970 ed., Supp. V), see 88 Stat. 1265, an
independent expenditure ban separate from § 610 that applied
to individuals as well as corporations and labor unions,
Buckley, 424 U. S., at 23, 39, and n. 45.
Before addressing the constitutionality of § 608(e)’s independent
expenditure ban, Buckley first upheld § 608(b),
FECA’s limits on direct contributions to candidates. The
Buckley Court recognized a “sufficiently important” governmental
interest in “the prevention of corruption and the appearance
of corruption.” Id., at 25; see id., at 26. This followed
from the Court’s concern that large contributions
could be given “to secure a political quid pro quo.” Ibid.
The Buckley Court explained that the potential for quid
pro quo corruption distinguished direct contributions to candidates
from independent expenditures. The Court emphasized
that “the independent expenditure ceiling . . . fails to
serve any substantial governmental interest in stemming the
reality or appearance of corruption in the electoral process,”
id., at 47–48, because “[t]he absence of prearrangement and
coordination . . . alleviates the danger that expenditures will
be given as a quid pro quo for improper commitments from
the candidate,” id., at 47. Buckley invalidated § 608(e)’s restrictions
on independent expenditures, with only one Justice
dissenting. See Federal Election Comm’n v. National Conservative
Political Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480, 491, n. 3
(1985) (NCPAC).346 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Buckley did not consider § 610’s separate ban on corporate
and union independent expenditures, the prohibition that
had also been in the background in CIO, Automobile Workers,
and Pipefitters. Had § 610 been challenged in the wake
of Buckley, however, it could not have been squared with
the reasoning and analysis of that precedent. See WRTL,
551 U. S., at 487 (opinion of Scalia, J.) (“Buckley might well
have been the last word on limitations on independent expenditures”);
Austin, 494 U. S., at 683 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
The expenditure ban invalidated in Buckley, § 608(e),
applied to corporations and unions, 424 U. S., at 23, 39, n. 45;
and some of the prevailing plaintiffs in Buckley were corporations,
id., at 8. The Buckley Court did not invoke the
First Amendment’s overbreadth doctrine, see Broadrick v.
Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 615 (1973), to suggest that § 608(e)’s
expenditure ban would have been constitutional if it had applied
only to corporations and not to individuals, 424 U. S.,
at 50. Buckley cited with approval the Automobile Workers
dissent, which argued that § 610 was unconstitutional.
424 U. S., at 43 (citing 352 U. S., at 595–596 (opinion of Douglas,
J.)).
Notwithstanding this precedent, Congress recodified
§ 610’s corporate and union expenditure ban at 2 U. S. C.
§ 441b four months after Buckley was decided. See 90 Stat.
490. Section 441b is the independent expenditure restriction
challenged here.
Less than two years after Buckley, Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765,
reaffirmed the First Amendment principle that the Government
cannot restrict political speech based on the speaker’s
corporate identity. Bellotti could not have been clearer
when it struck down a state-law prohibition on corporate independent
expenditures related to referenda issues:
“We thus find no support in the First . . . Amendment,
or in the decisions of this Court, for the proposition that
speech that otherwise would be within the protection of
the First Amendment loses that protection simply beCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 347
Opinion of the Court
cause its source is a corporation that cannot prove, to
the satisfaction of a court, a material effect on its business
or property. . . . [That proposition] amounts to an
impermissible legislative prohibition of speech based on
the identity of the interests that spokesmen may represent
in public debate over controversial issues and a
requirement that the speaker have a sufficiently great
interest in the subject to justify communication.
. . . . .
“In the realm of protected speech, the legislature is
constitutionally disqualified from dictating the subjects
about which persons may speak and the speakers who
may address a public issue.” Id., at 784–785.
It is important to note that the reasoning and holding of
Bellotti did not rest on the existence of a viewpoint-
discriminatory statute. It rested on the principle that the
Government lacks the power to ban corporations from
speaking.
Bellotti did not address the constitutionality of the State’s
ban on corporate independent expenditures to support candidates.
In our view, however, that restriction would have
been unconstitutional under Bellotti’s central principle: that
the First Amendment does not allow political speech restrictions
based on a speaker’s corporate identity. See ibid.
3
Thus the law stood until Austin. Austin “uph[eld] a direct
restriction on the independent expenditure of funds for
political speech for the first time in [this Court’s] history.”
494 U. S., at 695 (Kennedy, J., dissenting). There, the Michigan
Chamber of Commerce sought to use general treasury
funds to run a newspaper ad supporting a specific candidate.
Michigan law, however, prohibited corporate independent expenditures
that supported or opposed any candidate for state
office. A violation of the law was punishable as a felony.
The Court sustained the speech prohibition.348 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
To bypass Buckley and Bellotti, the Austin Court identified
a new governmental interest in limiting political speech:
an antidistortion interest. Austin found a compelling governmental
interest in preventing “the corrosive and distorting
effects of immense aggregations of wealth that are accumulated
with the help of the corporate form and that have
little or no correlation to the public’s support for the corporation’s
political ideas.” 494 U. S., at 660; see id., at 659 (citing
MCFL, 479 U. S., at 257; NCPAC, 470 U. S., at 500–501).
B
The Court is thus confronted with conflicting lines of precedent:
a pre-Austin line that forbids restrictions on political
speech based on the speaker’s corporate identity and a post-
Austin line that permits them. No case before Austin had
held that Congress could prohibit independent expenditures
for political speech based on the speaker’s corporate identity.
Before Austin, Congress had enacted legislation for this purpose,
and the Government urged the same proposition before
this Court. See MCFL, supra, at 257 (FEC posited that
Congress intended to “curb the political influence of ‘those
who exercise control over large aggregations of capital’ ”
(quoting Automobile Workers, 352 U. S., at 585)); California
Medical Assn. v. Federal Election Comm’n, 453 U. S. 182,
201 (1981) (Congress believed that “differing structures and
purposes” of corporations and unions “may require different
forms of regulation in order to protect the integrity of the
electoral process”). In neither of these cases did the Court
adopt the proposition.
In its defense of the corporate-speech restrictions in
§ 441b, the Government notes the antidistortion rationale on
which Austin and its progeny rest in part, yet it all but abandons
reliance upon it. It argues instead that two other compelling
interests support Austin’s holding that corporate expenditure
restrictions are constitutional: an anticorruption
interest, see 494 U. S., at 678 (Stevens, J., concurring), andCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 349
Opinion of the Court
a shareholder-protection interest, see id., at 674–675 (Brennan,
J., concurring). We consider the three points in turn.
1
As for Austin’s antidistortion rationale, the Government
does little to defend it. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 45–48 (Sept. 9,
2009). And with good reason, for the rationale cannot
support § 441b.
If the First Amendment has any force, it prohibits Congress
from fining or jailing citizens, or associations of citizens,
for simply engaging in political speech. If the antidistortion
rationale were to be accepted, however, it would
permit Government to ban political speech simply because
the speaker is an association that has taken on the corporate
form. The Government contends that Austin permits it to
ban corporate expenditures for almost all forms of communication
stemming from a corporation. See Part II–E, supra;
Tr. of Oral Arg. 66 (Sept. 9, 2009); see also id., at 26–31 (Mar.
24, 2009). If Austin were correct, the Government could
prohibit a corporation from expressing political views in
media beyond those presented here, such as by printing
books. The Government responds “that the FEC has never
applied this statute to a book,” and if it did, “there would be
quite [a] good as-applied challenge.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 65
(Sept. 9, 2009). This troubling assertion of brooding governmental
power cannot be reconciled with the confidence and
stability in civic discourse that the First Amendment must
secure.
Political speech is “indispensable to decisionmaking in a
democracy, and this is no less true because the speech comes
from a corporation rather than an individual.” Bellotti, 435
U. S., at 777 (footnote omitted); see ibid. (the worth of speech
“does not depend upon the identity of its source, whether
corporation, association, union, or individual”); Buckley, 424
U. S., at 48–49 (“[T]he concept that government may restrict
the speech of some elements of our society in order to en350 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
hance the relative voice of others is wholly foreign to the
First Amendment”); Automobile Workers, supra, at 597
(Douglas, J., dissenting); CIO, 335 U. S., at 154–155 (Rutledge,
J., concurring in result). This protection for speech is
inconsistent with Austin’s antidistortion rationale. Austin
sought to defend the antidistortion rationale as a means to
prevent corporations from obtaining “ ‘an unfair advantage
in the political marketplace’ ” by using “ ‘resources amassed
in the economic marketplace.’ ” 494 U. S., at 659 (quoting
MCFL, supra, at 257). But Buckley rejected the premise
that the Government has an interest “in equalizing the relative
ability of individuals and groups to influence the outcome
of elections.” 424 U. S., at 48; see Bellotti, supra,
at 791, n. 30. Buckley was specific in stating that “the
skyrocketing cost of political campaigns” could not sustain
the governmental prohibition. 424 U. S., at 26. The First
Amendment’s protections do not depend on the speaker’s
“financial ability to engage in public discussion.” Id., at 49.
The Court reaffirmed these conclusions when it invalidated
the BCRA provision that increased the cap on contributions
to one candidate if the opponent made certain
expenditures from personal funds. See Davis v. Federal
Election Comm’n, 554 U. S. 724, 742 (2008) (“Leveling electoral
opportunities means making and implementing judgments
about which strengths should be permitted to contribute
to the outcome of an election. The Constitution,
however, confers upon voters, not Congress, the power to
choose the Members of the House of Representatives, Art. I,
§ 2, and it is a dangerous business for Congress to use the
election laws to influence the voters’ choices”). The rule
that political speech cannot be limited based on a speaker’s
wealth is a necessary consequence of the premise that the
First Amendment generally prohibits the suppression of political
speech based on the speaker’s identity.
Either as support for its antidistortion rationale or as a
further argument, the Austin majority undertook to distinCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 351
Opinion of the Court
guish wealthy individuals from corporations on the ground
that “[s]tate law grants corporations special advantages—
such as limited liability, perpetual life, and favorable treatment
of the accumulation and distribution of assets.” 494
U. S., at 658–659. This does not suffice, however, to allow
laws prohibiting speech. “It is rudimentary that the State
cannot exact as the price of those special advantages the forfeiture
of First Amendment rights.” Id., at 680 (Scalia,
J., dissenting).
It is irrelevant for purposes of the First Amendment that
corporate funds may “have little or no correlation to the public’s
support for the corporation’s political ideas.” Id., at 660
(majority opinion). All speakers, including individuals and
the media, use money amassed from the economic marketplace
to fund their speech. The First Amendment protects
the resulting speech, even if it was enabled by economic
transactions with persons or entities who disagree with the
speaker’s ideas. See id., at 707 (Kennedy, J., dissenting)
(“Many persons can trace their funds to corporations, if not
in the form of donations, then in the form of dividends, interest,
or salary”).
Austin’s antidistortion rationale would produce the dangerous,
and unacceptable, consequence that Congress could
ban political speech of media corporations. See McConnell,
540 U. S., at 283 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (“The chilling endpoint
of the Court’s reasoning is not difficult to foresee: outright
regulation of the press”). Cf. Tornillo, 418 U. S., at
250 (alleging the existence of “vast accumulations of unreviewable
power in the modern media empires”). Media corporations
are now exempt from § 441b’s ban on corporate
expenditures. See 2 U. S. C. §§ 431(9)(B)(i), 434(f)(3)(B)(i).
Yet media corporations accumulate wealth with the help of
the corporate form, the largest media corporations have “immense
aggregations of wealth,” and the views expressed by
media corporations often “have little or no correlation to the
public’s support” for those views. Austin, 494 U. S., at 660.352 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Thus, under the Government’s reasoning, wealthy media corporations
could have their voices diminished to put them on
par with other media entities. There is no precedent for
permitting this under the First Amendment.
The media exemption discloses further difficulties with the
law now under consideration. There is no precedent supporting
laws that attempt to distinguish between corporations
which are deemed to be exempt as media corporations
and those which are not. “We have consistently rejected
the proposition that the institutional press has any constitutional
privilege beyond that of other speakers.” Id., at 691
(Scalia, J., dissenting) (citing Bellotti, 435 U. S., at 782); see
Dun & Bradstreet, Inc. v. Greenmoss Builders, Inc., 472
U. S. 749, 784 (1985) (Brennan, J., joined by Marshall, Black-
mun, and Stevens, JJ., dissenting); id., at 773 (White, J.,
concurring in judgment). With the advent of the Internet
and the decline of print and broadcast media, moreover, the
line between the media and others who wish to comment on
political and social issues becomes far more blurred.
The law’s exception for media corporations is, on its own
terms, all but an admission of the invalidity of the antidistortion
rationale. And the exemption results in a further, separate
reason for finding this law invalid: Again by its own
terms, the law exempts some corporations but covers others,
even though both have the need or the motive to communicate
their views. The exemption applies to media corporations
owned or controlled by corporations that have diverse
and substantial investments and participate in endeavors
other than news. So even assuming the most doubtful proposition
that a news organization has a right to speak when
others do not, the exemption would allow a conglomerate
that owns both a media business and an unrelated business to
influence or control the media in order to advance its overall
business interest. At the same time, some other corporation,
with an identical business interest but no media outlet
in its ownership structure, would be forbidden to speak orCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 353
Opinion of the Court
inform the public about the same issue. This differential
treatment cannot be squared with the First Amendment.
There is simply no support for the view that the First
Amendment, as originally understood, would permit the suppression
of political speech by media corporations. The
Framers may not have anticipated modern business and
media corporations. See McIntyre v. Ohio Elections
Comm’n, 514 U. S. 334, 360–361 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring
in judgment). Yet television networks and major newspapers
owned by media corporations have become the most
important means of mass communication in modern times.
The First Amendment was certainly not understood to condone
the suppression of political speech in society’s most salient
media. It was understood as a response to the repression
of speech and the press that had existed in England and
the heavy taxes on the press that were imposed in the Colonies.
See McConnell, supra, at 252–253 (opinion of Scalia,
J.); Grosjean, 297 U. S., at 245–248; Near, 283 U. S., at 713–
714. The great debates between the Federalists and the
Anti-Federalists over our founding document were published
and expressed in the most important means of mass communication
of that era—newspapers owned by individuals. See
McIntyre, 514 U. S., at 341–343; id., at 367 (Thomas, J., concurring
in judgment). At the founding, speech was open,
comprehensive, and vital to society’s definition of itself; there
were no limits on the sources of speech and knowledge. See
B. Bailyn, Ideological Origins of the American Revolution 5
(1967) (“Any number of people could join in such proliferating
polemics, and rebuttals could come from all sides”);
G. Wood, Creation of the American Republic 1776–1787, p. 6
(1969) (“[I]t is not surprising that the intellectual sources
of [the Americans’] Revolutionary thought were profuse and
various”). The Framers may have been unaware of certain
types of speakers or forms of communication, but that does
not mean that those speakers and media are entitled to less
First Amendment protection than those types of speakers354 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
and media that provided the means of communicating political
ideas when the Bill of Rights was adopted.
Austin interferes with the “open marketplace” of ideas
protected by the First Amendment. New York State Bd. of
Elections v. Lopez Torres, 552 U. S. 196, 208 (2008); see ibid.
(ideas “may compete” in this marketplace “without government
interference”); McConnell, 540 U. S., at 274 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). It permits the Government to ban the political
speech of millions of associations of citizens. See Statistics
of Income 2 (5.8 million for-profit corporations filed 2006
tax returns). Most of these are small corporations without
large amounts of wealth. See Supp. Brief for Chamber of
Commerce of the United States of America as Amicus Curiae
1, 3 (96% of the 3 million businesses that belong to the
U. S. Chamber of Commerce have fewer than 100 employees);
M. Keightley, Congressional Research Service Report
for Congress, Business Organizational Choices: Taxation and
Responses to Legislative Changes 10 (2009) (more than 75%
of corporations whose income is taxed under federal law, see
26 U. S. C. § 301, have less than $1 million in receipts per
year). This fact belies the Government’s argument that the
statute is justified on the ground that it prevents the “distorting
effects of immense aggregations of wealth.” Austin,
494 U. S., at 660. It is not even aimed at amassed wealth.
The censorship we now confront is vast in its reach. The
Government has “muffle[d] the voices that best represent
the most significant segments of the economy.” McConnell,
supra, at 257–258 (opinion of Scalia, J.). And “the electorate
[has been] deprived of information, knowledge and opinion
vital to its function.” CIO, 335 U. S., at 144 (Rutledge,
J., concurring in result). By suppressing the speech of manifold
corporations, both for-profit and nonprofit, the Government
prevents their voices and viewpoints from reaching the
public and advising voters on which persons or entities are
hostile to their interests. Factions will necessarily form in
our Republic, but the remedy of “destroying the liberty” ofCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 355
Opinion of the Court
some factions is “worse than the disease.” The Federalist
No. 10, p. 130 (B. Wright ed. 1961) (J. Madison). Factions
should be checked by permitting them all to speak, see ibid.,
and by entrusting the people to judge what is true and what
is false.
The purpose and effect of this law is to prevent corporations,
including small and nonprofit corporations, from presenting
both facts and opinions to the public. This makes
Austin’s antidistortion rationale all the more an aberration.
“[T]he First Amendment protects the right of corporations
to petition legislative and administrative bodies.” Bellotti,
435 U. S., at 792, n. 31 (citing California Motor Transport
Co. v. Trucking Unlimited, 404 U. S. 508, 510–511 (1972);
Eastern Railroad Presidents Conference v. Noerr Motor
Freight, Inc., 365 U. S. 127, 137–138 (1961)). Corporate executives
and employees counsel Members of Congress and
Presidential administrations on many issues, as a matter of
routine and often in private. An amici brief filed on behalf
of Montana and 25 other States notes that lobbying and corporate
communications with elected officials occur on a regular
basis. Brief for State of Montana et al. 19. When that
phenomenon is coupled with § 441b, the result is that smaller
or nonprofit corporations cannot raise a voice to object when
other corporations, including those with vast wealth, are cooperating
with the Government. That cooperation may
sometimes be voluntary, or it may be at the demand of a
Government official who uses his or her authority, influence,
and power to threaten corporations to support the Government’s
policies. Those kinds of interactions are often unknown
and unseen. The speech that § 441b forbids, though,
is public, and all can judge its content and purpose. References
to massive corporate treasuries should not mask
the real operation of this law. Rhetoric ought not obscure
reality.
Even if § 441b’s expenditure ban were constitutional,
wealthy corporations could still lobby elected officials, al356 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
though smaller corporations may not have the resources to
do so. And wealthy individuals and unincorporated associations
can spend unlimited amounts on independent expenditures.
See, e. g., WRTL, 551 U. S., at 503–504 (opinion of
Scalia, J.) (“In the 2004 election cycle, a mere 24 individuals
contributed an astounding total of $142 million to [26 U. S. C.
§ 527 organizations]”). Yet certain disfavored associations
of citizens—those that have taken on the corporate form—
are penalized for engaging in the same political speech.
When Government seeks to use its full power, including
the criminal law, to command where a person may get his
or her information or what distrusted source he or she may
not hear, it uses censorship to control thought. This is
unlawful. The First Amendment confirms the freedom to
think for ourselves.
2
What we have said also shows the invalidity of other arguments
made by the Government. For the most part relinquishing
the antidistortion rationale, the Government falls
back on the argument that corporate political speech can be
banned in order to prevent corruption or its appearance. In
Buckley, the Court found this interest “sufficiently important”
to allow limits on contributions but did not extend that
reasoning to expenditure limits. 424 U. S., at 25. When
Buckley examined an expenditure ban, it found “that the
governmental interest in preventing corruption and the appearance
of corruption [was] inadequate to justify [the ban]
on independent expenditures.” Id., at 45.
With regard to large direct contributions, Buckley reasoned
that they could be given “to secure a political quid pro
quo,” id., at 26, and that “the scope of such pernicious practices
can never be reliably ascertained,” id., at 27. The
practices Buckley noted would be covered by bribery laws,
see, e. g., 18 U. S. C. § 201, if a quid pro quo arrangement
were proved. See Buckley, supra, at 27, and n. 28 (citing
Buckley v. Valeo, 519 F. 2d 821, 839–840, and nn. 36–38Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 357
Opinion of the Court
(CADC 1975) (en banc) (per curiam)). The Court, in consequence,
has noted that restrictions on direct contributions
are preventative, because few if any contributions to candidates
will involve quid pro quo arrangements. MCFL, 479
U. S., at 260; NCPAC, 470 U. S., at 500; Federal Election
Comm’n v. National Right to Work Comm., 459 U. S. 197,
210 (1982) (NRWC). The Buckley Court, nevertheless, sustained
limits on direct contributions in order to ensure
against the reality or appearance of corruption. That case
did not extend this rationale to independent expenditures,
and the Court does not do so here.
“The absence of prearrangement and coordination of an
expenditure with the candidate or his agent not only undermines
the value of the expenditure to the candidate, but also
alleviates the danger that expenditures will be given as a
quid pro quo for improper commitments from the candidate.”
Buckley, 424 U. S., at 47; see ibid. (independent expenditures
have a “substantially diminished potential for abuse”). Limits
on independent expenditures, such as § 441b, have a chilling
effect extending well beyond the Government’s interest
in preventing quid pro quo corruption. The anticorruption
interest is not sufficient to displace the speech here in question.
Indeed, 26 States do not restrict independent expenditures
by for-profit corporations. The Government does not
claim that these expenditures have corrupted the political
process in those States. See Supp. Brief for Appellee 18,
n. 3; Supp. Brief for Chamber of Commerce of the United
States of America as Amicus Curiae 8–9, n. 5.
A single footnote in Bellotti purported to leave open the
possibility that corporate independent expenditures could be
shown to cause corruption. 435 U. S., at 788, n. 26. For the
reasons explained above, we now conclude that independent
expenditures, including those made by corporations, do not
give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption.
Dicta in Bellotti’s footnote suggested that “a corporation’s
right to speak on issues of general public interest implies no358 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
comparable right in the quite different context of participation
in a political campaign for election to public office.”
Ibid. Citing the portion of Buckley that invalidated the federal
independent expenditure ban, 424 U. S., at 46, and a law
review student comment, Bellotti surmised that “Congress
might well be able to demonstrate the existence of a danger
of real or apparent corruption in independent expenditures
by corporations to influence candidate elections.” 435 U. S.,
at 788, n. 26. Buckley, however, struck down a ban on independent
expenditures to support candidates that covered
corporations, 424 U. S., at 23, 39, n. 45, and explained that
“the distinction between discussion of issues and candidates
and advocacy of election or defeat of candidates may often
dissolve in practical application,” id., at 42. Bellotti’s dictum
is thus supported only by a law review student comment,
which misinterpreted Buckley. See Comment, The
Regulation of Union Political Activity: Majority and Minority
Rights and Remedies, 126 U. Pa. L. Rev. 386, 408 (1977)
(suggesting that “corporations and labor unions should be
held to different and more stringent standards than an individual
or other associations under a regulatory scheme for
campaign financing”).
Seizing on this aside in Bellotti’s footnote, the Court in
NRWC did say there is a “sufficient” governmental interest
in “ensur[ing] that substantial aggregations of wealth
amassed” by corporations would not “be used to incur political
debts from legislators who are aided by the contributions.”
459 U. S., at 207–208 (citing Automobile Workers,
352 U. S., at 579); see 459 U. S., at 210, and n. 7; NCPAC,
supra, at 500–501 (NRWC suggested a governmental interest
in restricting “the influence of political war chests funneled
through the corporate form”). NRWC, however, has
little relevance here. NRWC decided no more than that a
restriction on a corporation’s ability to solicit funds for its
segregated PAC, which made direct contributions to candidates,
did not violate the First Amendment. 459 U. S., atCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 359
Opinion of the Court
206. NRWC thus involved contribution limits, see NCPAC,
supra, at 495–496, which, unlike limits on independent expenditures,
have been an accepted means to prevent quid
pro quo corruption, see McConnell, 540 U. S., at 136–138,
and n. 40; MCFL, supra, at 259–260. Citizens United has
not made direct contributions to candidates, and it has not
suggested that the Court should reconsider whether contribution
limits should be subjected to rigorous First Amendment
scrutiny.
When Buckley identified a sufficiently important governmental
interest in preventing corruption or the appearance
of corruption, that interest was limited to quid pro quo corruption.
See McConnell, supra, at 296–298 (opinion of Kennedy,
J.) (citing Buckley, supra, at 26–28, 30, 46–48);
NCPAC, 470 U. S., at 497 (“The hallmark of corruption is the
financial quid pro quo: dollars for political favors”); id., at
498. The fact that speakers may have influence over or access
to elected officials does not mean that these officials
are corrupt:
“Favoritism and influence are not . . . avoidable in representative
politics. It is in the nature of an elected representative
to favor certain policies, and, by necessary
corollary, to favor the voters and contributors who support
those policies. It is well understood that a substantial
and legitimate reason, if not the only reason, to
cast a vote for, or to make a contribution to, one candidate
over another is that the candidate will respond by
producing those political outcomes the supporter favors.
Democracy is premised on responsiveness.” McConnell,
540 U. S., at 297 (opinion of Kennedy, J.).
Reliance on a “generic favoritism or influence theory . . . is
at odds with standard First Amendment analyses because it
is unbounded and susceptible to no limiting principle.” Id.,
at 296.360 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
The appearance of influence or access, furthermore, will
not cause the electorate to lose faith in our democracy. By
definition, an independent expenditure is political speech
presented to the electorate that is not coordinated with a
candidate. See Buckley, supra, at 46. The fact that a corporation,
or any other speaker, is willing to spend money to
try to persuade voters presupposes that the people have the
ultimate influence over elected officials. This is inconsistent
with any suggestion that the electorate will refuse “ ‘to take
part in democratic governance’ ” because of additional political
speech made by a corporation or any other speaker. McConnell,
supra, at 144 (quoting Nixon v. Shrink Missouri
Government PAC, 528 U. S. 377, 390 (2000)).
Caperton v. A. T. Massey Coal Co., 556 U. S. 868 (2009), is
not to the contrary. Caperton held that a judge was required
to recuse himself “when a person with a personal
stake in a particular case had a significant and disproportionate
influence in placing the judge on the case by raising funds
or directing the judge’s election campaign when the case was
pending or imminent.” Id., at 884. The remedy of recusal
was based on a litigant’s due process right to a fair trial
before an unbiased judge. See Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U. S.
35, 46 (1975). Caperton’s holding was limited to the rule
that the judge must be recused, not that the litigant’s political
speech could be banned.
The McConnell record was “over 100,000 pages” long, McConnell
I, 251 F. Supp. 2d, at 209, yet it “does not have any
direct examples of votes being exchanged for . . . expenditures,”
id., at 560 (opinion of Kollar-Kotelly, J.). This confirms
Buckley’s reasoning that independent expenditures do
not lead to, or create the appearance of, quid pro quo corruption.
In fact, there is only scant evidence that independent
expenditures even ingratiate. See 251 F. Supp. 2d, at 555–
557 (opinion of Kollar-Kotelly, J.). Ingratiation and access,
in any event, are not corruption. The BCRA record establishes
that certain donations to political parties, called “softCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 361
Opinion of the Court
money,” were made to gain access to elected officials. McConnell,
supra, at 125, 130–131, 146–152; see McConnell I,
251 F. Supp. 2d, at 471–481, 491–506 (opinion of Kollar-
Kotelly, J.); id., at 842–843, 858–859 (opinion of Leon, J.).
This case, however, is about independent expenditures, not
soft money. When Congress finds that a problem exists, we
must give that finding due deference; but Congress may not
choose an unconstitutional remedy. If elected officials succumb
to improper influences from independent expenditures;
if they surrender their best judgment; and if they put expediency
before principle, then surely there is cause for concern.
We must give weight to attempts by Congress to seek to
dispel either the appearance or the reality of these influences.
The remedies enacted by law, however, must comply
with the First Amendment; and it is our law and our tradition
that more speech, not less, is the governing rule. An
outright ban on corporate political speech during the critical
preelection period is not a permissible remedy. Here Congress
has created categorical bans on speech that are asymmetrical
to preventing quid pro quo corruption.
3
The Government contends further that corporate independent
expenditures can be limited because of its interest
in protecting dissenting shareholders from being compelled
to fund corporate political speech. This asserted interest,
like Austin’s antidistortion rationale, would allow the Government
to ban the political speech even of media corporations.
See supra, at 352–354. Assume, for example, that a
shareholder of a corporation that owns a newspaper disagrees
with the political views the newspaper expresses.
See Austin, 494 U. S., at 687 (Scalia, J., dissenting). Under
the Government’s view, that potential disagreement could
give the Government the authority to restrict the media corporation’s
political speech. The First Amendment does not
allow that power. There is, furthermore, little evidence of362 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
abuse that cannot be corrected by shareholders “through the
procedures of corporate democracy.” Bellotti, 435 U. S., at
794; see ibid., n. 34.
Those reasons are sufficient to reject this shareholder-
protection interest; and, moreover, the statute is both under-
inclusive and overinclusive. As to the first, if Congress had
been seeking to protect dissenting shareholders, it would not
have banned corporate speech in only certain media within
30 or 60 days before an election. A dissenting shareholder’s
interests would be implicated by speech in any media at any
time. As to the second, the statute is overinclusive because
it covers all corporations, including nonprofit corporations
and for-profit corporations with only single shareholders.
As to other corporations, the remedy is not to restrict speech
but to consider and explore other regulatory mechanisms.
The regulatory mechanism here, based on speech, contravenes
the First Amendment.
4
We need not reach the question whether the Government
has a compelling interest in preventing foreign individuals or
associations from influencing our Nation’s political process.
Cf. 2 U. S. C. § 441e (contribution and expenditure ban applied
to “foreign national[s]”). Section 441b is not limited
to corporations or associations that were created in foreign
countries or funded predominantly by foreign shareholders.
Section 441b therefore would be overbroad even if we assumed,
arguendo, that the Government has a compelling interest
in limiting foreign influence over our political process.
See Broadrick, 413 U. S., at 615.
C
Our precedent is to be respected unless the most convincing
of reasons demonstrates that adherence to it puts us on a
course that is sure error. “Beyond workability, the relevant
factors in deciding whether to adhere to the principle of stareCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 363
Opinion of the Court
decisis include the antiquity of the precedent, the reliance
interests at stake, and of course whether the decision was
well reasoned.” Montejo v. Louisiana, 556 U. S. 778, 792–
793 (2009) (overruling Michigan v. Jackson, 475 U. S. 625
(1986)). We have also examined whether “experience has
pointed up the precedent’s shortcomings.” Pearson v. Callahan,
555 U. S. 223, 233 (2009) (overruling Saucier v. Katz,
533 U. S. 194 (2001)).
These considerations counsel in favor of rejecting Austin,
which itself contravened this Court’s earlier precedents
in Buckley and Bellotti. “This Court has not hesitated
to overrule decisions offensive to the First Amendment.”
WRTL, 551 U. S., at 500 (opinion of Scalia, J.). “[S]tare
decisis is a principle of policy and not a mechanical formula
of adherence to the latest decision.” Helvering v. Hallock,
309 U. S. 106, 119 (1940).
For the reasons above, it must be concluded that Austin
was not well reasoned. The Government defends Austin,
relying almost entirely on “the quid pro quo interest, the
corruption interest or the shareholder interest,” and not
Austin’s expressed antidistortion rationale. Tr. of Oral Arg.
48 (Sept. 9, 2009); see id., at 45–46. When neither party
defends the reasoning of a precedent, the principle of adhering
to that precedent through stare decisis is diminished.
Austin abandoned First Amendment principles, furthermore,
by relying on language in some of our precedents that
traces back to the Automobile Workers Court’s flawed historical
account of campaign finance laws, see Brief for Campaign
Finance Scholars as Amici Curiae; Hayward, 45 Harv.
J. Legis. 421; R. Mutch, Campaigns, Congress, and Courts
33–35, 153–157 (1988). See Austin, supra, at 659 (citing
MCFL, 479 U. S., at 257–258; NCPAC, 470 U. S., at 500–501);
MCFL, supra, at 257 (citing Automobile Workers, 352 U. S.,
at 585); NCPAC, supra, at 500 (citing NRWC, 459 U. S., at
210); id., at 208 (“The history of the movement to regulate
the political contributions and expenditures of corporations364 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
and labor unions is set forth in great detail in [Automobile
Workers], supra, at 570–584, and we need only summarize
the development here”).
Austin is undermined by experience since its announcement.
Political speech is so ingrained in our culture that
speakers find ways to circumvent campaign finance laws.
See, e. g., McConnell, 540 U. S., at 176–177 (“Given BCRA’s
tighter restrictions on the raising and spending of soft
money, the incentives . . . to exploit [26 U. S. C. § 527] organizations
will only increase”). Our Nation’s speech dynamic is
changing, and informative voices should not have to circumvent
onerous restrictions to exercise their First Amendment
rights. Speakers have become adept at presenting citizens
with sound bites, talking points, and scripted messages that
dominate the 24-hour news cycle. Corporations, like individuals,
do not have monolithic views. On certain topics
corporations may possess valuable expertise, leaving them
the best equipped to point out errors or fallacies in speech
of all sorts, including the speech of candidates and elected
officials.
Rapid changes in technology—and the creative dynamic
inherent in the concept of free expression—counsel against
upholding a law that restricts political speech in certain
media or by certain speakers. See Part II–C, supra.
Today, 30-second television ads may be the most effective
way to convey a political message. See McConnell, supra,
at 261 (opinion of Scalia, J.). Soon, however, it may be that
Internet sources, such as blogs and social networking Web
sites, will provide citizens with significant information about
political candidates and issues. Yet, § 441b would seem to
ban a blog post expressly advocating the election or defeat
of a candidate if that blog were created with corporate funds.
See 2 U. S. C. § 441b(a); MCFL, supra, at 249. The First
Amendment does not permit Congress to make these categorical
distinctions based on the corporate identity of the
speaker and the content of the political speech.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 365
Opinion of the Court
No serious reliance interests are at stake. As the Court
stated in Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 828 (1991), reliance
interests are important considerations in property and
contract cases, where parties may have acted in conformance
with existing legal rules in order to conduct transactions.
Here, though, parties have been prevented from acting—
corporations have been banned from making independent
expenditures. Legislatures may have enacted bans on corporate
expenditures believing that those bans were constitutional.
This is not a compelling interest for stare
decisis. If it were, legislative acts could prevent us from
overruling our own precedents, thereby interfering with our
duty “to say what the law is.” Marbury v. Madison, 1
Cranch 137, 177 (1803).
Due consideration leads to this conclusion: Austin, 494
U. S. 652, should be and now is overruled. We return to
the principle established in Buckley and Bellotti that the
Government may not suppress political speech on the basis
of the speaker’s corporate identity. No sufficient governmental
interest justifies limits on the political speech of nonprofit
or for-profit corporations.
D
Austin is overruled, so it provides no basis for allowing
the Government to limit corporate independent expenditures.
As the Government appears to concede, overruling
Austin “effectively invalidate[s] not only BCRA Section 203,
but also 2 U. S. C. 441b’s prohibition on the use of corporate
treasury funds for express advocacy.” Brief for Appellee 33,
n. 12. Section 441b’s restrictions on corporate independent
expenditures are therefore invalid and cannot be applied to
Hillary.
Given our conclusion we are further required to overrule
the part of McConnell that upheld BCRA § 203’s extension of
§ 441b’s restrictions on corporate independent expenditures.
See 540 U. S., at 203–209. The McConnell Court relied on366 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
the antidistortion interest recognized in Austin to uphold a
greater restriction on speech than the restriction upheld in
Austin, see 540 U. S., at 205, and we have found this interest
unconvincing and insufficient. This part of McConnell is
now overruled.
IV
A
Citizens United next challenges BCRA’s disclaimer and
disclosure provisions as applied to Hillary and the three advertisements
for the movie. Under BCRA § 311, televised
electioneering communications funded by anyone other than
a candidate must include a disclaimer that “ ‘–––––– is responsible
for the content of this advertising.’ ” 2 U. S. C.
§ 441d(d)(2). The required statement must be made in a
“clearly spoken manner,” and displayed on the screen in a
“clearly readable manner” for at least four seconds. Ibid.
It must state that the communication “is not authorized by
any candidate or candidate’s committee”; it must also display
the name and address (or Web site address) of the person or
group that funded the advertisement. § 441d(a)(3). Under
BCRA § 201, any person who spends more than $10,000
on electioneering communications within a calendar year
must file a disclosure statement with the FEC. 2 U. S. C.
§ 434(f)(1). That statement must identify the person making
the expenditure, the amount of the expenditure, the election
to which the communication was directed, and the names of
certain contributors. § 434(f)(2).
Disclaimer and disclosure requirements may burden the
ability to speak, but they “impose no ceiling on campaign-
related activities,” Buckley, 424 U. S., at 64, and “do not prevent
anyone from speaking,” McConnell, supra, at 201 (internal
quotation marks and brackets omitted). The Court
has subjected these requirements to “exacting scrutiny,”
which requires a “substantial relation” between the disclosure
requirement and a “sufficiently important” governmenCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 367
Opinion of the Court
tal interest. Buckley, supra, at 64, 66 (internal quotation
marks omitted); see McConnell, supra, at 231–232.
In Buckley, the Court explained that disclosure could be
justified based on a governmental interest in “provid[ing] the
electorate with information” about the sources of election-
related spending. 424 U. S., at 66. The McConnell Court
applied this interest in rejecting facial challenges to BCRA
§§ 201 and 311. 540 U. S., at 196. There was evidence in
the record that independent groups were running election-
related advertisements “ ‘while hiding behind dubious and
misleading names.’ ” Id., at 197 (quoting McConnell I, 251
F. Supp. 2d, at 237). The Court therefore upheld BCRA
§§ 201 and 311 on the ground that they would help citizens
“ ‘make informed choices in the political marketplace.’ ” 540
U. S., at 197 (quoting McConnell I, supra, at 237); see 540
U. S., at 231.
Although both provisions were facially upheld, the Court
acknowledged that as-applied challenges would be available
if a group could show a “ ‘reasonable probability’ ” that disclosure
of its contributors’ names “ ‘will subject them to threats,
harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials
or private parties.’ ” Id., at 198 (quoting Buckley, supra,
at 74).
For the reasons stated below, we find the statute valid as
applied to the ads for the movie and to the movie itself.
B
Citizens United sought to broadcast one 30-second and two
10-second ads to promote Hillary. Under FEC regulations,
a communication that “[p]roposes a commercial transaction”
was not subject to 2 U. S. C. § 441b’s restrictions on corporate
or union funding of electioneering communications. 11 CFR
§ 114.15(b)(3)(ii). The regulations, however, do not exempt
those communications from the disclaimer and disclosure requirements
in BCRA §§ 201 and 311. See 72 Fed. Reg.
72901 (2007).368 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Citizens United argues that the disclaimer requirements
in § 311 are unconstitutional as applied to its ads. It contends
that the governmental interest in providing information
to the electorate does not justify requiring disclaimers
for any commercial advertisements, including the ones
at issue here. We disagree. The ads fall within BCRA’s
definition of an “electioneering communication”: They referred
to then-Senator Clinton by name shortly before a primary
and contained pejorative references to her candidacy.
See 530 F. Supp. 2d, at 276, nn. 2–4. The disclaimers required
by § 311 “provid[e] the electorate with information,”
McConnell, supra, at 196, and “insure that the voters are
fully informed” about the person or group who is speaking,
Buckley, supra, at 76; see also Bellotti, 435 U. S., at 792,
n. 32 (“Identification of the source of advertising may be required
as a means of disclosure, so that the people will be
able to evaluate the arguments to which they are being subjected”).
At the very least, the disclaimers avoid confusion
by making clear that the ads are not funded by a candidate
or political party.
Citizens United argues that § 311 is underinclusive because
it requires disclaimers for broadcast advertisements
but not for print or Internet advertising. It asserts that
§ 311 decreases both the quantity and effectiveness of the
group’s speech by forcing it to devote four seconds of each
advertisement to the spoken disclaimer. We rejected these
arguments in McConnell, supra, at 230–231. And we now
adhere to that decision as it pertains to the disclosure
provisions.
As a final point, Citizens United claims that, in any event,
the disclosure requirements in § 201 must be confined to
speech that is the functional equivalent of express advocacy.
The principal opinion in WRTL limited 2 U. S. C. § 441b’s restrictions
on independent expenditures to express advocacy
and its functional equivalent. 551 U. S., at 469–476 (opinion
of Roberts, C. J.). Citizens United seeks to import a simiCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 369
Opinion of the Court
lar distinction into BCRA’s disclosure requirements. We reject
this contention.
The Court has explained that disclosure is a less restrictive
alternative to more comprehensive regulations of
speech. See, e. g., MCFL, 479 U. S., at 262. In Buckley, the
Court upheld a disclosure requirement for independent expenditures
even though it invalidated a provision that imposed
a ceiling on those expenditures. 424 U. S., at 75–76.
In McConnell, three Justices who would have found § 441b
to be unconstitutional nonetheless voted to uphold BCRA’s
disclosure and disclaimer requirements. 540 U. S., at 321
(opinion of Kennedy, J., joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and
Scalia, J.). And the Court has upheld registration and disclosure
requirements on lobbyists, even though Congress has
no power to ban lobbying itself. United States v. Harriss,
347 U. S. 612, 625 (1954) (Congress “has merely provided for
a modicum of information from those who for hire attempt
to influence legislation or who collect or spend funds for
that purpose”). For these reasons, we reject Citizens United’s
contention that the disclosure requirements must be limited
to speech that is the functional equivalent of express
advocacy.
Citizens United also disputes that an informational interest
justifies the application of § 201 to its ads, which only
attempt to persuade viewers to see the film. Even if it disclosed
the funding sources for the ads, Citizens United says,
the information would not help viewers make informed
choices in the political marketplace. This is similar to the
argument rejected above with respect to disclaimers. Even
if the ads only pertain to a commercial transaction, the public
has an interest in knowing who is speaking about a candidate
shortly before an election. Because the informational interest
alone is sufficient to justify application of § 201 to these
ads, it is not necessary to consider the Government’s other
asserted interests.370 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of the Court
Last, Citizens United argues that disclosure requirements
can chill donations to an organization by exposing donors to
retaliation. Some amici point to recent events in which donors
to certain causes were blacklisted, threatened, or otherwise
targeted for retaliation. See Brief for Institute for
Justice as Amicus Curiae 13–16; Brief for Alliance Defense
Fund as Amicus Curiae 16–22. In McConnell, the Court
recognized that § 201 would be unconstitutional as applied to
an organization if there were a reasonable probability that
the group’s members would face threats, harassment, or reprisals
if their names were disclosed. 540 U. S., at 198.
The examples cited by amici are cause for concern. Citizens
United, however, has offered no evidence that its members
may face similar threats or reprisals. To the contrary,
Citizens United has been disclosing its donors for years and
has identified no instance of harassment or retaliation.
Shareholder objections raised through the procedures of
corporate democracy, see Bellotti, supra, at 794, and n. 34,
can be more effective today because modern technology
makes disclosures rapid and informative. A campaign finance
system that pairs corporate independent expenditures
with effective disclosure has not existed before today. It
must be noted, furthermore, that many of Congress’ findings
in passing BCRA were premised on a system without adequate
disclosure. See McConnell, 540 U. S., at 128 (“[T]he
public may not have been fully informed about the sponsorship
of so-called issue ads”); id., at 196–197 (citing McConnell
I, 251 F. Supp. 2d, at 237). With the advent of the Internet,
prompt disclosure of expenditures can provide shareholders
and citizens with the information needed to hold corporations
and elected officials accountable for their positions and supporters.
Shareholders can determine whether their corporation’s
political speech advances the corporation’s interest
in making profits, and citizens can see whether elected officials
are “ ‘in the pocket’ of so-called moneyed interests.”
540 U. S., at 259 (opinion of Scalia, J.); see MCFL, supra, atCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 371
Opinion of the Court
261. The First Amendment protects political speech; and
disclosure permits citizens and shareholders to react to the
speech of corporate entities in a proper way. This transparency
enables the electorate to make informed decisions and
give proper weight to different speakers and messages.
C
For the same reasons we uphold the application of BCRA
§§ 201 and 311 to the ads, we affirm their application to Hillary.
We find no constitutional impediment to the application
of BCRA’s disclaimer and disclosure requirements to a
movie broadcast via video-on-demand. And there has been
no showing that, as applied in this case, these requirements
would impose a chill on speech or expression.
V
When word concerning the plot of the movie Mr. Smith
Goes to Washington reached the circles of Government, some
officials sought, by persuasion, to discourage its distribution.
See Smoodin, “Compulsory” Viewing for Every Citizen:
Mr. Smith and the Rhetoric of Reception, 35 Cinema Journal
3, 19, and n. 52 (Winter 1996) (citing Mr. Smith Riles Washington,
Time, Oct. 30, 1939, p. 49); Nugent, Capra’s Capitol
Offense, N. Y. Times, Oct. 29, 1939, p. X5. Under Austin,
though, officials could have done more than discourage its
distribution—they could have banned the film. After all, it,
like Hillary, was speech funded by a corporation that was
critical of Members of Congress. Mr. Smith Goes to Washington
may be fiction and caricature; but fiction and caricature
can be a powerful force.
Modern day movies, television comedies, or skits on You-
Tube.com might portray public officials or public policies in
unflattering ways. Yet if a covered transmission during the
blackout period creates the background for candidate endorsement
or opposition, a felony occurs solely because a corporation,
other than an exempt media corporation, has made372 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
the “purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit,
or gift of money or anything of value” in order to engage in
political speech. 2 U. S. C. § 431(9)(A)(i). Speech would be
suppressed in the realm where its necessity is most evident:
in the public dialogue preceding a real election. Governments
are often hostile to speech, but under our law and our
tradition it seems stranger than fiction for our Government
to make this political speech a crime. Yet this is the statute’s
purpose and design.
Some members of the public might consider Hillary to be
insightful and instructive; some might find it to be neither
high art nor a fair discussion on how to set the Nation’s
course; still others simply might suspend judgment on these
points but decide to think more about issues and candidates.
Those choices and assessments, however, are not for the Government
to make. “The First Amendment underwrites the
freedom to experiment and to create in the realm of thought
and speech. Citizens must be free to use new forms, and
new forums, for the expression of ideas. The civic discourse
belongs to the people, and the Government may not prescribe
the means used to conduct it.” McConnell, supra, at
341 (opinion of Kennedy, J.).
The judgment of the District Court is reversed with respect
to the constitutionality of 2 U. S. C. § 441b’s restrictions
on corporate independent expenditures. The judgment is
affirmed with respect to BCRA’s disclaimer and disclosure
requirements. The case is remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito
joins, concurring.
The Government urges us in this case to uphold a direct
prohibition on political speech. It asks us to embrace a theory
of the First Amendment that would allow censorship not
only of television and radio broadcasts, but of pamphlets,Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 373
Roberts, C. J., concurring
posters, the Internet, and virtually any other medium that
corporations and unions might find useful in expressing their
views on matters of public concern. Its theory, if accepted,
would empower the Government to prohibit newspapers
from running editorials or opinion pieces supporting or opposing
candidates for office, so long as the newspapers were
owned by corporations—as the major ones are. First
Amendment rights could be confined to individuals, subverting
the vibrant public discourse that is at the foundation of
our democracy.
The Court properly rejects that theory, and I join its opinion
in full. The First Amendment protects more than just
the individual on a soapbox and the lonely pamphleteer. I
write separately to address the important principles of judicial
restraint and stare decisis implicated in this case.
I
Judging the constitutionality of an Act of Congress is “the
gravest and most delicate duty that this Court is called on to
perform.” Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142, 147–148 (1927)
(Holmes, J., concurring). Because the stakes are so high,
our standard practice is to refrain from addressing constitutional
questions except when necessary to rule on particular
claims before us. See Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U. S. 288,
346–348 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring). This policy underlies
both our willingness to construe ambiguous statutes to
avoid constitutional problems and our practice “ ‘never to formulate
a rule of constitutional law broader than is required
by the precise facts to which it is to be applied.’ ” United
States v. Raines, 362 U. S. 17, 21 (1960) (quoting Liverpool,
New York & Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Commissioners of Emigration,
113 U. S. 33, 39 (1885)).
The majority and dissent are united in expressing allegiance
to these principles. Ante, at 329; post, at 405–406
(Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).374 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
But I cannot agree with my dissenting colleagues on how
these principles apply in this case.
The majority’s step-by-step analysis accords with our
standard practice of avoiding broad constitutional questions
except when necessary to decide the case before us. The
majority begins by addressing—and quite properly reject-
ing—Citizens United’s statutory claim that 2 U. S. C. § 441b
does not actually cover its production and distribution of
Hillary: The Movie (hereinafter Hillary). If there were
a valid basis for deciding this statutory claim in Citizens
United’s favor (and thereby avoiding constitutional adjudication),
it would be proper to do so. Indeed, that is precisely
the approach the Court took just last Term in Northwest
Austin Municipal Util. Dist. No. One v. Holder, 557 U. S.
193 (2009), when eight Members of the Court agreed to decide
the case on statutory grounds instead of reaching the
appellant’s broader argument that the Voting Rights Act is
unconstitutional.
It is only because the majority rejects Citizens United’s
statutory claim that it proceeds to consider the group’s various
constitutional arguments, beginning with its narrowest
claim (that Hillary is not the functional equivalent of express
advocacy) and proceeding to its broadest claim (that
Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, 494 U. S. 652
(1990), should be overruled). This is the same order of operations
followed by the controlling opinion in Federal Election
Comm’n v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., 551 U. S. 449
(2007) (WRTL). There the appellant was able to prevail on
its narrowest constitutional argument because its broadcast
ads did not qualify as the functional equivalent of express
advocacy; there was thus no need to go on to address the
broader claim that McConnell v. Federal Election Comm’n,
540 U. S. 93 (2003), should be overruled. WRTL, 551 U. S.,
at 482; id., at 482–483 (Alito, J., concurring). This case is
different—not, as the dissent suggests, because the approach
taken in WRTL has been deemed a “failure,” post, at 402,Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 375
Roberts, C. J., concurring
but because, in the absence of any valid narrower ground of
decision, there is no way to avoid Citizens United’s broader
constitutional argument.
The dissent advocates an approach to addressing Citizens
United’s claims that I find quite perplexing. It presumably
agrees with the majority that Citizens United’s narrower
statutory and constitutional arguments lack merit—otherwise
its conclusion that the group should lose this case would
make no sense. Despite agreeing that these narrower arguments
fail, however, the dissent argues that the majority
should nonetheless latch on to one of them in order to avoid
reaching the broader constitutional question of whether Austin
remains good law. It even suggests that the Court’s failure
to adopt one of these concededly meritless arguments is
a sign that the majority is not “serious about judicial restraint.”
Post, at 408.
This approach is based on a false premise: that our practice
of avoiding unnecessary (and unnecessarily broad) constitutional
holdings somehow trumps our obligation faithfully to
interpret the law. It should go without saying, however,
that we cannot embrace a narrow ground of decision simply
because it is narrow; it must also be right. Thus while it is
true that “[i]f it is not necessary to decide more, it is necessary
not to decide more,” post, at 405 (internal quotation
marks omitted), sometimes it is necessary to decide more.
There is a difference between judicial restraint and judicial
abdication. When constitutional questions are “indispensably
necessary” to resolving the case at hand, “the court
must meet and decide them.” Ex parte Randolph, 20
F. Cas. 242, 254 (No. 11,558) (CC Va. 1833) (Marshall, C. J.).
Because it is necessary to reach Citizens United’s broader
argument that Austin should be overruled, the debate over
whether to consider this claim on an as-applied or facial basis
strikes me as largely beside the point. Citizens United
has standing—it is being injured by the Government’s enforcement
of the Act. Citizens United has a constitutional376 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
claim—the Act violates the First Amendment, because it
prohibits political speech. The Government has a defense—
the Act may be enforced, consistent with the First Amendment,
against corporations. Whether the claim or the defense
prevails is the question before us.
Given the nature of that claim and defense, it makes no
difference of any substance whether this case is resolved by
invalidating the statute on its face or only as applied to Citizens
United. Even if considered in as-applied terms, a holding
in this case that the Act may not be applied to Citizens
United—because corporations as well as individuals enjoy
the pertinent First Amendment rights—would mean that
any other corporation raising the same challenge would also
win. Likewise, a conclusion that the Act may be applied
to Citizens United—because it is constitutional to prohibit
corporate political speech—would similarly govern future
cases. Regardless whether we label Citizens United’s claim
a “facial” or “as-applied” challenge, the consequences of the
Court’s decision are the same.1
II
The text and purpose of the First Amendment point in the
same direction: Congress may not prohibit political speech,
even if the speaker is a corporation or union. What makes
this case difficult is the need to confront our prior decision
in Austin.
This is the first case in which we have been asked to overrule
Austin, and thus it is also the first in which we have
had reason to consider how much weight to give stare decisis
in assessing its continued validity. The dissent erroneously
1 The dissent suggests that I am “much too quick” to reach this conclusion
because I “ignore” Citizens United’s narrower arguments. Post, at
405, n. 12. But in fact I do not ignore those arguments; on the contrary,
I (and my colleagues in the majority) appropriately consider and reject
them on their merits, before addressing Citizens United’s broader claims.
Supra, at 373–375; ante, at 322–329.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 377
Roberts, C. J., concurring
declares that the Court “reaffirmed” Austin’s holding in subsequent
cases—namely, Federal Election Comm’n v. Beaumont,
539 U. S. 146 (2003); McConnell; and WRTL. Post, at
439–441. Not so. Not a single party in any of those cases
asked us to overrule Austin, and as the dissent points out,
post, at 396–398, the Court generally does not consider constitutional
arguments that have not properly been raised.
Austin’s validity was therefore not directly at issue in the
cases the dissent cites. The Court’s unwillingness to overturn
Austin in those cases cannot be understood as a reaffirmation
of that decision.
A
Fidelity to precedent—the policy of stare decisis—is vital
to the proper exercise of the judicial function. “Stare decisis
is the preferred course because it promotes the evenhanded,
predictable, and consistent development of legal
principles, fosters reliance on judicial decisions, and contributes
to the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial process.”
Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827 (1991). For
these reasons, we have long recognized that departures from
precedent are inappropriate in the absence of a “special justification.”
Arizona v. Rumsey, 467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984).
At the same time, stare decisis is neither an “inexorable
command,” Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U. S. 558, 577 (2003),
nor “a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision,”
Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119 (1940),
especially in constitutional cases, see United States v. Scott,
437 U. S. 82, 101 (1978). If it were, segregation would be
legal, minimum wage laws would be unconstitutional, and the
Government could wiretap ordinary criminal suspects without
first obtaining warrants. See Plessy v. Ferguson, 163
U. S. 537 (1896), overruled by Brown v. Board of Education,
347 U. S. 483 (1954); Adkins v. Children’s Hospital of D. C.,
261 U. S. 525 (1923), overruled by West Coast Hotel Co. v.
Parrish, 300 U. S. 379 (1937); Olmstead v. United States,
277 U. S. 438 (1928), overruled by Katz v. United States,378 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
389 U. S. 347 (1967). As the dissent properly notes, none of
us has viewed stare decisis in such absolute terms. Post, at
408; see also, e. g., Randall v. Sorrell, 548 U. S. 230, 274–281
(2006) (Stevens, J., dissenting) (urging the Court to overrule
its invalidation of limits on independent expenditures
on political speech in Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976)
(per curiam)).
Stare decisis is instead a “principle of policy.” Helvering,
supra, at 119. When considering whether to reexamine a
prior erroneous holding, we must balance the importance of
having constitutional questions decided against the importance
of having them decided right. As Justice Jackson explained,
this requires a “sober appraisal of the disadvantages
of the innovation as well as those of the questioned case,
a weighing of practical effects of one against the other.”
Jackson, Decisional Law and Stare Decisis, 30 A. B. A. J.
334 (1944).
In conducting this balancing, we must keep in mind that
stare decisis is not an end in itself. It is instead “the means
by which we ensure that the law will not merely change erratically,
but will develop in a principled and intelligible fashion.”
Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U. S. 254, 265 (1986). Its
greatest purpose is to serve a constitutional ideal—the rule
of law. It follows that in the unusual circumstance when
fidelity to any particular precedent does more to damage this
constitutional ideal than to advance it, we must be more willing
to depart from that precedent.
Thus, for example, if the precedent under consideration
itself departed from the Court’s jurisprudence, returning to
the “ ‘intrinsically sounder’ doctrine established in prior
cases” may “better serv[e] the values of stare decisis than
would following [the] more recently decided case inconsistent
with the decisions that came before it.” Adarand Constructors,
Inc. v. Pen ˜ a, 515 U. S. 200, 231 (1995); see also Helve-
ring, supra, at 119; Randall, supra, at 274 (Stevens, J.,
dissenting). Abrogating the errant precedent, rather thanCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 379
Roberts, C. J., concurring
reaffirming or extending it, might better preserve the law’s
coherence and curtail the precedent’s disruptive effects.
Likewise, if adherence to a precedent actually impedes the
stable and orderly adjudication of future cases, its stare decisis
effect is also diminished. This can happen in a number
of circumstances, such as when the precedent’s validity is so
hotly contested that it cannot reliably function as a basis for
decision in future cases, when its rationale threatens to
upend our settled jurisprudence in related areas of law, and
when the precedent’s underlying reasoning has become so
discredited that the Court cannot keep the precedent alive
without jury-rigging new and different justifications to shore
up the original mistake. See, e. g., Pearson v. Callahan, 555
U. S. 223, 235 (2009); Montejo v. Louisiana, 556 U. S. 778,
792 (2009) (stare decisis does not control when adherence to
the prior decision requires “fundamentally revising its theoretical
basis”).
B
These considerations weigh against retaining our decision
in Austin. First, as the majority explains, that decision was
an “aberration” insofar as it departed from the robust protections
we had granted political speech in our earlier cases.
Ante, at 355; see also Buckley, supra; First Nat. Bank of
Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765 (1978). Austin undermined
the careful line that Buckley drew to distinguish limits on
contributions to candidates from limits on independent expenditures
on speech. Buckley rejected the asserted government
interest in regulating independent expenditures,
concluding that “restrict[ing] the speech of some elements of
our society in order to enhance the relative voice of others
is wholly foreign to the First Amendment.” 424 U. S., at
48–49; see also Bellotti, supra, at 790–791; Citizens Against
Rent Control/Coalition for Fair Housing v. Berkeley, 454
U. S. 290, 295 (1981). Austin, however, allowed the Government
to prohibit these same expenditures out of concern for
“the corrosive and distorting effects of immense aggrega380 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
tions of wealth” in the marketplace of ideas. 494 U. S.,
at 660. Austin’s reasoning was—and remains—inconsistent
with Buckley’s explicit repudiation of any government interest
in “equalizing the relative ability of individuals and
groups to influence the outcome of elections.” 424 U. S., at
48–49.
Austin was also inconsistent with Bellotti’s clear rejection
of the idea that “speech that otherwise would be within the
protection of the First Amendment loses that protection simply
because its source is a corporation.” 435 U. S., at 784.
The dissent correctly points out that Bellotti involved a referendum
rather than a candidate election, and that Bellotti
itself noted this factual distinction, id., at 788, n. 26; post,
at 442–443. But this distinction does not explain why corporations
may be subject to prohibitions on speech in candidate
elections when individuals may not.
Second, the validity of Austin’s rationale—itself adopted
over two “spirited dissents,” Payne, 501 U. S., at 829—has
proved to be the consistent subject of dispute among Members
of this Court ever since. See, e. g., WRTL, 551 U. S., at
483 (Scalia, J., joined by Kennedy and Thomas, JJ., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment); McConnell, 540
U. S., at 247, 264, 286 (opinions of Scalia, Thomas, and Kennedy,
JJ.); Beaumont, 539 U. S., at 163, 164 (opinions of Kennedy
and Thomas, JJ.). The simple fact that one of our
decisions remains controversial is, of course, insufficient to
justify overruling it. But it does undermine the precedent’s
ability to contribute to the stable and orderly development
of the law. In such circumstances, it is entirely appropriate
for the Court—which in this case is squarely asked to reconsider
Austin’s validity for the first time—to address the matter
with a greater willingness to consider new approaches
capable of restoring our doctrine to sounder footing.
Third, the Austin decision is uniquely destabilizing because
it threatens to subvert our Court’s decisions even outside
the particular context of corporate express advocacy.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 381
Roberts, C. J., concurring
The First Amendment theory underlying Austin’s holding is
extraordinarily broad. Austin’s logic would authorize government
prohibition of political speech by a category of
speakers in the name of equality—a point that most scholars
acknowledge (and many celebrate), but that the dissent denies.
Compare, e. g., Garrett, New Voices in Politics: Justice
Marshall’s Jurisprudence on Law and Politics, 52 How. L. J.
655, 669 (2009) (Austin “has been understood by most commentators
to be an opinion driven by equality considerations,
albeit disguised in the language of ‘political corruption’ ”),
with post, at 464 (Austin’s rationale “is manifestly not just
an ‘equalizing’ ideal in disguise”).2
It should not be surprising, then, that Members of the
Court have relied on Austin’s expansive logic to justify
greater incursions on the First Amendment, even outside the
original context of corporate advocacy on behalf of candidates
running for office. See, e. g., Davis v. Federal Election
Comm’n, 554 U. S. 724, 756 (2008) (Stevens, J., concurring
in part and dissenting in part) (relying on Austin and
other cases to justify restrictions on campaign spending by
individual candidates, explaining that “there is no reason
that their logic—specifically, their concerns about the corrosive
and distorting effects of wealth on our political process—is
not equally applicable in the context of individual
wealth”); McConnell, supra, at 203–209 (extending Austin
beyond its original context to cover not only the “functional
equivalent” of express advocacy by corporations, but also
2 See also, e. g., R. Hasen, The Supreme Court and Election Law: Judging
Equality from Baker v. Carr to Bush v. Gore 114 (2003) (“Austin represents
the first and only case [before McConnell] in which a majority of
the Court accepted, in deed if not in word, the equality rationale as a
permissible state interest”); Strauss, Corruption, Equality, and Campaign
Finance Reform, 94 Colum. L. Rev. 1369, and n. 1 (1994) (noting that Austin’s
rationale was based on equalizing political speech); Ashdown, Controlling
Campaign Spending and the “New Corruption”: Waiting for the
Court, 44 Vand. L. Rev. 767, 781 (1991); Eule, Promoting Speaker Diversity:
Austin and Metro Broadcasting, 1990 S. Ct. Rev. 105, 108–111.382 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
electioneering speech conducted by labor unions). The dissent
in this case succumbs to the same temptation, suggesting
that Austin justifies prohibiting corporate speech
because such speech might unduly influence “the market for
legislation.” Post, at 471. The dissent reads Austin to permit
restrictions on corporate speech based on nothing more
than the fact that the corporate form may help individuals
coordinate and present their views more effectively. Post,
at 471–472. A speaker’s ability to persuade, however, provides
no basis for government regulation of free and open
public debate on what the laws should be.
If taken seriously, Austin’s logic would apply most directly
to newspapers and other media corporations. They have a
more profound impact on public discourse than most other
speakers. These corporate entities are, for the time being,
not subject to § 441b’s otherwise generally applicable prohibitions
on corporate political speech. But this is simply a
matter of legislative grace. The fact that the law currently
grants a favored position to media corporations is no reason
to overlook the danger inherent in accepting a theory
that would allow government restrictions on their political
speech. See generally McConnell, supra, at 283–286
(Thomas, J., concurring in part, concurring in judgment in
part, and dissenting in part).
These readings of Austin do no more than carry that decision’s
reasoning to its logical endpoint. In doing so, they
highlight the threat Austin poses to First Amendment
rights generally, even outside its specific factual context of
corporate express advocacy. Because Austin is so difficult
to confine to its facts—and because its logic threatens to undermine
our First Amendment jurisprudence and the nature
of public discourse more broadly—the costs of giving it stare
decisis effect are unusually high.
Finally and most importantly, the Government’s own effort
to defend Austin—or, more accurately, to defend something
that is not quite Austin—underscores its weakness asCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 383
Roberts, C. J., concurring
a precedent of the Court. The Government concedes that
Austin “is not the most lucid opinion,” yet asks us to reaffirm
its holding. Tr. of Oral Arg. 62 (Sept. 9, 2009). But while
invoking stare decisis to support this position, the Government
never once even mentions the compelling interest that
Austin relied upon in the first place: the need to diminish
“the corrosive and distorting effects of immense aggregations
of wealth that are accumulated with the help of the
corporate form and that have little or no correlation to the
public’s support for the corporation’s political ideas.” 494
U. S., at 660.
Instead of endorsing Austin on its own terms, the Government
urges us to reaffirm Austin’s specific holding on the
basis of two new and potentially expansive interests—the
need to prevent actual or apparent quid pro quo corruption,
and the need to protect corporate shareholders. See Supp.
Brief for Appellee 8–10, 12–13. Those interests may or may
not support the result in Austin, but they were plainly not
part of the reasoning on which Austin relied.
To its credit, the Government forthrightly concedes that
Austin did not embrace either of the new rationales it now
urges upon us. See, e. g., Supp. Brief for Appellee 11 (“The
Court did not decide in Austin . . . whether the compelling
interest in preventing actual or apparent corruption provides
a constitutionally sufficient justification for prohibiting the
use of corporate treasury funds for independent electioneering”);
Tr. of Oral Arg. 45 (Sept. 9, 2009) (“Austin did not
articulate what we believe to be the strongest compelling
interest”); id., at 61 (“[The Court:] I take it we have never
accepted your shareholder protection interest. This is a
new argument. [The Government:] I think that that’s fair”);
id., at 64 (“[The Court:] In other words, you are asking us to
uphold Austin on the basis of two arguments, two principles,
two compelling interests we have never accepted, in [the context
of limits on political expenditures]. [The Government:]
[I]n this particular context, fair enough”).384 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Roberts, C. J., concurring
To be clear: The Court in Austin nowhere relied upon the
only arguments the Government now raises to support that
decision. In fact, the only opinion in Austin endorsing the
Government’s argument based on the threat of quid pro quo
corruption was Justice Stevens’s concurrence. 494 U. S.,
at 678. The Court itself did not do so, despite the fact that
the concurrence highlighted the argument. Moreover, the
Court’s only discussion of shareholder protection in Austin
appeared in a section of the opinion that sought merely to
distinguish Austin’s facts from those of Federal Election
Comm’n v. Massachusetts Citizens for Life, Inc., 479 U. S.
238 (1986). Austin, supra, at 663. Nowhere did Austin
suggest that the goal of protecting shareholders is itself a
compelling interest authorizing restrictions on First Amendment
rights.
To the extent that the Government’s case for reaffirming
Austin depends on radically reconceptualizing its reasoning,
that argument is at odds with itself. Stare decisis is a doctrine
of preservation, not transformation. It counsels deference
to past mistakes, but provides no justification for making
new ones. There is therefore no basis for the Court to
give precedential sway to reasoning that it has never accepted,
simply because that reasoning happens to support a
conclusion reached on different grounds that have since been
abandoned or discredited.
Doing so would undermine the rule-of-law values that justify
stare decisis in the first place. It would effectively license
the Court to invent and adopt new principles of constitutional
law solely for the purpose of rationalizing its past
errors, without a proper analysis of whether those principles
have merit on their own. This approach would allow the
Court’s past missteps to spawn future mistakes, undercutting
the very rule-of-law values that stare decisis is designed
to protect.
None of this is to say that the Government is barred from
making new arguments to support the outcome in Austin.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 385
Scalia, J., concurring
On the contrary, it is free to do so. And of course the Court
is free to accept them. But the Government’s new arguments
must stand or fall on their own; they are not entitled
to receive the special deference we accord to precedent.
They are, as grounds to support Austin, literally unprecedented.
Moreover, to the extent the Government relies on
new arguments—and declines to defend Austin on its own
terms—we may reasonably infer that it lacks confidence in
that decision’s original justification.
Because continued adherence to Austin threatens to subvert
the “principled and intelligible” development of our
First Amendment jurisprudence, Vasquez, 474 U. S., at
265, I support the Court’s determination to overrule that
decision.
* * *
We have had two rounds of briefing in this case, two oral
arguments, and 54 amicus briefs to help us carry out our
obligation to decide the necessary constitutional questions
according to law. We have also had the benefit of a comprehensive
dissent that has helped ensure that the Court has
considered all the relevant issues. This careful consideration
convinces me that Congress violates the First Amendment
when it decrees that some speakers may not engage in
political speech at election time, when it matters most.
Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Alito joins, and
with whom Justice Thomas joins in part, concurring.
I join the opinion of the Court.1
I write separately to address Justice Stevens’ discussion
of “Original Understandings,” post, at 425 (opinion concurring
in part and dissenting in part) (hereinafter referred
to as the dissent). This section of the dissent purports to
show that today’s decision is not supported by the original
understanding of the First Amendment. The dissent at1
Justice Thomas does not join Part IV of the Court’s opinion.386 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Scalia, J., concurring
tempts this demonstration, however, in splendid isolation
from the text of the First Amendment. It never shows why
“the freedom of speech” that was the right of Englishmen
did not include the freedom to speak in association with other
individuals, including association in the corporate form. To
be sure, in 1791 (as now) corporations could pursue only the
objectives set forth in their charters; but the dissent provides
no evidence that their speech in the pursuit of those
objectives could be censored.
Instead of taking this straightforward approach to determining
the Amendment’s meaning, the dissent embarks on a
detailed exploration of the Framers’ views about the “role of
corporations in society.” Post, at 426. The Framers did not
like corporations, the dissent concludes, and therefore it follows
(as night the day) that corporations had no rights of
free speech. Of course the Framers’ personal affection or
disaffection for corporations is relevant only insofar as it can
be thought to be reflected in the understood meaning of the
text they enacted—not, as the dissent suggests, as a freestanding
substitute for that text. But the dissent’s distortion
of proper analysis is even worse than that. Though
faced with a constitutional text that makes no distinction between
types of speakers, the dissent feels no necessity to
provide even an isolated statement from the founding era to
the effect that corporations are not covered, but places the
burden on appellant to bring forward statements showing
that they are. Ibid. (“[T]here is not a scintilla of evidence
to support the notion that anyone believed [the First Amendment]
would preclude regulatory distinctions based on the
corporate form”).
Despite the corporation-hating quotations the dissent has
dredged up, it is far from clear that by the end of the 18th
century corporations were despised. If so, how came there
to be so many of them? The dissent’s statement that there
were few business corporations during the 18th century—
“only a few hundred during all of the 18th century”—is misCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 387
Scalia, J., concurring
leading. Post, at 426, n. 53. There were approximately 335
charters issued to business corporations in the United States
by the end of the 18th century.2 See 2 J. Davis, Essays in
the Earlier History of American Corporations 24 (1917) (reprinted
2006) (hereinafter Davis). This was a “considerable
extension of corporate enterprise in the field of business,”
id., at 8, and represented “unprecedented growth,” id., at
309. Moreover, what seems like a small number by today’s
standards surely does not indicate the relative importance of
corporations when the Nation was considerably smaller. As
I have previously noted, “[b]y the end of the eighteenth century
the corporation was a familiar figure in American economic
life.” McConnell v. Federal Election Comm’n, 540
U. S. 93, 256 (2003) (Scalia, J., concurring in part, concurring
in judgment in part, and dissenting in part) (quoting C.
Cooke, Corporation Trust and Company 92 (1951) (hereinafter
Cooke); internal quotation marks omitted).
Even if we thought it proper to apply the dissent’s approach
of excluding from First Amendment coverage what
the Founders disliked, and even if we agreed that the Founders
disliked founding-era corporations, modern corporations
might not qualify for exclusion. Most of the Founders’ resentment
toward corporations was directed at the state-
granted monopoly privileges that individually chartered corporations
enjoyed.3 Modern corporations do not have such
2 The dissent protests that 1791 rather than 1800 should be the relevant
date, and that “[m]ore than half of the century’s total business charters
were issued between 1796 and 1800.” Post, at 426, n. 53. I used 1800
only because the dissent did. But in any case, it is surely fanciful to think
that a consensus of hostility toward corporations was transformed into
general favor at some magical moment between 1791 and 1796.
3 “[P]eople in 1800 identified corporations with franchised monopolies.”
L. Friedman, A History of American Law 194 (2d ed. 1985) (hereinafter
Friedman). “The chief cause for the changed popular attitude towards
business corporations that marked the opening of the nineteenth century
was the elimination of their inherent monopolistic character. This was
accomplished primarily by an extension of the principle of free incorpora388 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Scalia, J., concurring
privileges, and would probably have been favored by most
of our enterprising Founders—excluding, perhaps, Thomas
Jefferson and others favoring perpetuation of an agrarian society.
Moreover, if the Founders’ specific intent with respect
to corporations is what matters, why does the dissent
ignore the Founders’ views about other legal entities that
have more in common with modern business corporations
than the founding-era corporations? At the time of the
founding, religious, educational, and literary corporations
were incorporated under general incorporation statutes,
much as business corporations are today.4 See Davis 16–17;
R. Seavoy, Origins of the American Business Corporation,
1784–1855, p. 5 (1982); Cooke 94. There were also small
unincorporated business associations, which some have argued
were the “ ‘true progenitors’ ” of today’s business
corporations. Friedman 200 (quoting S. Livermore, Early
American Land Companies: Their Influence on Corporate
Development 216 (1939)); see also Davis 33. Were all of
these silently excluded from the protections of the First
Amendment?
The lack of a textual exception for speech by corporations
cannot be explained on the ground that such organizations
did not exist or did not speak. To the contrary, colleges,
towns and cities, religious institutions, and guilds had long
been organized as corporations at common law and under the
King’s charter, see 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the
Laws of England 455–473 (1765); 1 S. Kyd, A Treatise on the
Law of Corporations 1–32, 63 (1793) (reprinted 2006), and as
tion under general laws.” 1 W. Fletcher, Cyclopedia of the Law of Corporations
§ 2, p. 8 (rev. ed. 2006).
4 At times (though not always) the dissent seems to exclude such non“business
corporations” from its denial of free-speech rights. See post,
at 428. Finding in a seemingly categorical text a distinction between the
rights of business corporations and the rights of nonbusiness corporations
is even more imaginative than finding a distinction between the rights of
all corporations and the rights of other associations.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 389
Scalia, J., concurring
I have discussed, the practice of incorporation only expanded
in the United States. Both corporations and voluntary associations
actively petitioned the Government and expressed
their views in newspapers and pamphlets. For example: An
antislavery Quaker corporation petitioned the First Congress,
distributed pamphlets, and communicated through the
press in 1790. W. diGiacomantonio, “For the Gratification
of a Volunteering Society”: Antislavery and Pressure Group
Politics in the First Federal Congress, 15 J. Early Republic
169 (1995). The New York Sons of Liberty sent a circular
to Colonies farther south in 1766. P. Maier, From Resistance
to Revolution 79–80 (1972). And the Society for
the Relief and Instruction of Poor Germans circulated a
biweekly paper from 1755 to 1757. Adams, The Colonial
German-language Press and the American Revolution, in
The Press & the American Revolution 151, 161–162 (B. Bailyn
& J. Hench eds. 1980). The dissent offers no evidence—
none whatever—that the First Amendment’s unqualified
text was originally understood to exclude such associational
speech from its protection.5
5 The best the dissent can come up with is that “[p]ostratification practice”
supports its reading of the First Amendment. Post, at 431, n. 56.
For this proposition, the dissent cites Justice White’s statement (in dissent)
that “[t]he common law was generally interpreted as prohibiting corporate
political participation,” First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435
U. S. 765, 819 (1978). The sole authority Justice White cited for this proposition,
id., at 819, n. 14, was a law-review note that made no such claim.
To the contrary, it stated that the cases dealing with the propriety of
corporate political expenditures were “few.” Note, Corporate Political
Affairs Programs, 70 Yale L. J. 821, 852 (1961). More specifically, the note
cites only two holdings to that effect, one by a Federal District Court, and
one by the Supreme Court of Montana. Ibid., n. 197. Of course even if
the common law was “generally interpreted” to prohibit corporate political
expenditures as ultra vires, that would have nothing to do with whether
political expenditures that were authorized by a corporation’s charter
could constitutionally be suppressed.
As additional “[p]ostratification practice,” the dissent notes that the
Court “did not recognize any First Amendment protections for corpora390 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Scalia, J., concurring
Historical evidence relating to the textually similar clause
“the freedom of . . . the press” also provides no support for
the proposition that the First Amendment excludes conduct
of artificial legal entities from the scope of its protection.
The freedom of “the press” was widely understood to protect
the publishing activities of individual editors and printers.
See McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm’n, 514 U. S. 334, 360
(1995) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment); see also McConnell,
540 U. S., at 252–253 (opinion of Scalia, J.). But these
individuals often acted through newspapers, which (much
like corporations) had their own names, outlived the individuals
who had founded them, could be bought and sold, were
sometimes owned by more than one person, and were operated
for profit. See generally F. Mott, American Journalism:
A History of Newspapers in the United States Through
250 Years 3–164 (1941); J. Smith, Freedom’s Fetters (1956).
Their activities were not stripped of First Amendment protection
simply because they were carried out under the banner
of an artificial legal entity. And the notion which follows
from the dissent’s view, that modern newspapers, since
they are incorporated, have free-speech rights only at the
sufferance of Congress, boggles the mind.6
tions until the middle part of the 20th century.” Post, at 431, n. 56. But
it did that in Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233 (1936), a case
involving freedom of the press—which the dissent acknowledges did cover
corporations from the outset. The relative recency of that first case is
unsurprising. All of our First Amendment jurisprudence was slow to develop.
We did not consider application of the First Amendment to speech
restrictions other than prior restraints until 1919, see Schenck v. United
States, 249 U. S. 47; we did not invalidate a state law on First Amendment
grounds until 1931, see Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359, and a federal
law until 1965, see Lamont v. Postmaster General, 381 U. S. 301.
6 The dissent seeks to avoid this conclusion (and to turn a liability into
an asset) by interpreting the Freedom of the Press Clause to refer to the
institutional press (thus demonstrating, according to the dissent, that the
Founders “did draw distinctions—explicit distinctions—between types of
‘speakers,’ or speech outlets or forms”). Post, at 431, and n. 57. It is
passing strange to interpret the phrase “the freedom of speech, or of theCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 391
Scalia, J., concurring
In passing, the dissent also claims that the Court’s conception
of corruption is unhistorical. The Framers “would have
been appalled,” it says, by the evidence of corruption in the
congressional findings supporting the Bipartisan Campaign
Reform Act of 2002. Post, at 451–452. For this proposition,
the dissent cites a law-review article arguing that “corruption”
was originally understood to include “moral decay”
and even actions taken by citizens in pursuit of private
rather than public ends. Teachout, The Anti-Corruption
Principle, 94 Cornell L. Rev. 341, 373, 378 (2009). It is hard
to see how this has anything to do with what sort of corruption
can be combated by restrictions on political speech.
Moreover, if speech can be prohibited because, in the view
of the Government, it leads to “moral decay” or does not
serve “public ends,” then there is no limit to the Government’s
censorship power.
The dissent says that when the Framers “constitutionalized
the right to free speech in the First Amendment, it was
the free speech of individual Americans that they had in
mind.” Post, at 428. That is no doubt true. All the provisions
of the Bill of Rights set forth the rights of individual
press” to mean, not everyone’s right to speak or publish, but rather everyone’s
right to speak or the institutional press’s right to publish. No one
thought that is what it meant. Patriot Noah Webster’s 1828 dictionary
contains, under the word “press,” the following entry:
“Liberty of the press, in civil policy, is the free right of publishing books,
pamphlets or papers without previous restraint; or the unrestrained right
which every citizen enjoys of publishing his thoughts and opinions, subject
only to punishment for publishing what is pernicious to morals or to the
peace of the state.” 2 American Dictionary of the English Language
(1828) (reprinted 1970).
As the Court’s opinion describes, ante, at 352, our jurisprudence agrees
with Noah Webster and contradicts the dissent.
“The liberty of the press is not confined to newspapers and periodicals.
It necessarily embraces pamphlets and leaflets. . . . The press in its historical
connotation comprehends every sort of publication which affords a vehicle
of information and opinion.” Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444,
452 (1938).392 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Scalia, J., concurring
men and women—not, for example, of trees or polar bears.
But the individual person’s right to speak includes the right
to speak in association with other individual persons.
Surely the dissent does not believe that speech by the Republican
Party or the Democratic Party can be censored because
it is not the speech of “an individual American.” It is
the speech of many individual Americans, who have associated
in a common cause, giving the leadership of the party
the right to speak on their behalf. The association of individuals
in a business corporation is no different—or at least
it cannot be denied the right to speak on the simplistic
ground that it is not “an individual American.” 7
But to return to, and summarize, my principal point, which
is the conformity of today’s opinion with the original meaning
of the First Amendment. The Amendment is written in
terms of “speech,” not speakers. Its text offers no foothold
7 The dissent says that “ ‘speech’ ” refers to oral communications of
human beings, and since corporations are not human beings they cannot
speak. Post, at 428, n. 55. This is sophistry. The authorized spokesman
of a corporation is a human being, who speaks on behalf of the human
beings who have formed that association—just as the spokesman of an
unincorporated association speaks on behalf of its members. The power
to publish thoughts, no less than the power to speak thoughts, belongs
only to human beings, but the dissent sees no problem with a corporation’s
enjoying the freedom of the press.
The same footnote asserts that “it has been ‘claimed that the notion of
institutional speech . . . did not exist in post-revolutionary America.’ ”
This is quoted from a law-review article by a Bigelow Fellow at the University
of Chicago (Fagundes, State Actors as First Amendment Speakers,
100 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1637, 1654 (2006)), which offers as the sole support for
its statement a treatise dealing with government speech, M. Yudof, When
Government Speaks 42–50 (1983). The cited pages of that treatise provide
no support whatever for the statement—unless, as seems overwhelmingly
likely, the “institutional speech” referred to was speech by the
subject of the law-review article, governmental institutions.
The other authority cited in the footnote, a law-review article by a professor
at Washington and Lee Law School, Bezanson, Institutional Speech,
80 Iowa L. Rev. 735, 775 (1995), in fact contradicts the dissent, in that it
would accord free-speech protection to associations.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 393
Opinion of Stevens, J.
for excluding any category of speaker, from single individuals
to partnerships of individuals, to unincorporated associations
of individuals, to incorporated associations of individuals—and
the dissent offers no evidence about the original
meaning of the text to support any such exclusion. We are
therefore simply left with the question whether the speech
at issue in this case is “speech” covered by the First Amendment.
No one says otherwise. A documentary film critical
of a potential Presidential candidate is core political speech,
and its nature as such does not change simply because it
was funded by a corporation. Nor does the character of that
funding produce any reduction whatever in the “inherent
worth of the speech” and “its capacity for informing the public,”
First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 777
(1978). Indeed, to exclude or impede corporate speech is to
muzzle the principal agents of the modern free economy.
We should celebrate rather than condemn the addition of this
speech to the public debate.
Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice
Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join, concurring in
part and dissenting in part.
The real issue in this case concerns how, not if, the appellant
may finance its electioneering. Citizens United is a
wealthy nonprofit corporation that runs a political action
committee (PAC) with millions of dollars in assets. Under
the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA), it
could have used those assets to televise and promote Hillary:
The Movie wherever and whenever it wanted to. It
also could have spent unrestricted sums to broadcast Hillary
at any time other than the 30 days before the last primary
election. Neither Citizens United’s nor any other corporation’s
speech has been “banned,” ante, at 319. All that the
parties dispute is whether Citizens United had a right to use
the funds in its general treasury to pay for broadcasts during
the 30-day period. The notion that the First Amendment394 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
dictates an affirmative answer to that question is, in my
judgment, profoundly misguided. Even more misguided is
the notion that the Court must rewrite the law relating to
campaign expenditures by for-profit corporations and unions
to decide this case.
The basic premise underlying the Court’s ruling is its iteration,
and constant reiteration, of the proposition that the
First Amendment bars regulatory distinctions based on a
speaker’s identity, including its “identity” as a corporation.
While that glittering generality has rhetorical appeal, it is
not a correct statement of the law. Nor does it tell us when
a corporation may engage in electioneering that some of its
shareholders oppose. It does not even resolve the specific
question whether Citizens United may be required to finance
some of its messages with the money in its PAC. The conceit
that corporations must be treated identically to natural
persons in the political sphere is not only inaccurate but also
inadequate to justify the Court’s disposition of this case.
In the context of election to public office, the distinction
between corporate and human speakers is significant. Although
they make enormous contributions to our society, corporations
are not actually members of it. They cannot vote
or run for office. Because they may be managed and controlled
by nonresidents, their interests may conflict in fundamental
respects with the interests of eligible voters. The
financial resources, legal structure, and instrumental orientation
of corporations raise legitimate concerns about their
role in the electoral process. Our lawmakers have a compelling
constitutional basis, if not also a democratic duty, to take
measures designed to guard against the potentially deleterious
effects of corporate spending in local and national races.
The majority’s approach to corporate electioneering marks
a dramatic break from our past. Congress has placed special
limitations on campaign spending by corporations ever
since the passage of the Tillman Act in 1907, ch. 420, 34 Stat.
864. We have unanimously concluded that this “reflects aCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 395
Opinion of Stevens, J.
permissible assessment of the dangers posed by those entities
to the electoral process,” FEC v. National Right to
Work Comm., 459 U. S. 197, 209 (1982) (NRWC), and have
accepted the “legislative judgment that the special characteristics
of the corporate structure require particularly careful
regulation,” id., at 209–210. The Court today rejects a
century of history when it treats the distinction between corporate
and individual campaign spending as an invidious novelty
born of Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, 494
U. S. 652 (1990). Relying largely on individual dissenting
opinions, the majority blazes through our precedents, overruling
or disavowing a body of case law including FEC v.
Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., 551 U. S. 449 (2007) (WRTL),
McConnell v. FEC, 540 U. S. 93 (2003), FEC v. Beaumont,
539 U. S. 146 (2003), FEC v. Massachusetts Citizens for Life,
Inc., 479 U. S. 238 (1986) (MCFL), NRWC, 459 U. S. 197, and
California Medical Assn. v. FEC, 453 U. S. 182 (1981).
In his landmark concurrence in Ashwander v. TVA, 297
U. S. 288, 346 (1936), Justice Brandeis stressed the importance
of adhering to rules the Court has “developed . . . for
its own governance” when deciding constitutional questions.
Because departures from those rules always enhance the
risk of error, I shall review the background of this case in
some detail before explaining why the Court’s analysis rests
on a faulty understanding of Austin and McConnell and of
our campaign finance jurisprudence more generally.1 I regret
the length of what follows, but the importance and novelty
of the Court’s opinion require a full response. Although
1 Specifically, Part I, infra, at 396–408, addresses the procedural history
of the case and the narrower grounds of decision the majority has bypassed.
Part II, infra, at 408–414, addresses stare decisis. Part III,
infra, at 414–446, addresses the Court’s assumptions that BCRA “bans”
corporate speech, that identity-based distinctions may not be drawn in the
political realm, and that Austin and McConnell were outliers in our First
Amendment tradition. Part IV, infra, at 447–478, addresses the Court’s
treatment of the anticorruption, antidistortion, and shareholder protection
rationales for regulating corporate electioneering.396 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
I concur in the Court’s decision to sustain BCRA’s disclosure
provisions and join Part IV of its opinion, I emphatically
dissent from its principal holding.
I
The Court’s ruling threatens to undermine the integrity of
elected institutions across the Nation. The path it has
taken to reach its outcome will, I fear, do damage to this
institution. Before turning to the question whether to overrule
Austin and part of McConnell, it is important to explain
why the Court should not be deciding that question.
Scope of the Case
The first reason is that the question was not properly
brought before us. In declaring § 203 of BCRA facially unconstitutional
on the ground that corporations’ electoral expenditures
may not be regulated any more stringently than
those of individuals, the majority decides this case on a basis
relinquished below, not included in the questions presented
to us by the litigants, and argued here only in response to
the Court’s invitation. This procedure is unusual and inadvisable
for a court.2 Our colleagues’ suggestion that “we are
asked to reconsider Austin and, in effect, McConnell,” ante,
at 319, would be more accurate if rephrased to state that “we
have asked ourselves” to reconsider those cases.
In the District Court, Citizens United initially raised a facial
challenge to the constitutionality of § 203. App. 23a–
2 See Yee v. Escondido, 503 U. S. 519, 535 (1992) (“[U]nder this Court’s
Rule 14.1(a), only the questions set forth in the petition, or fairly included
therein, will be considered by the Court” (internal quotation marks and
alteration omitted)); Wood v. Allen, ante, at 304 (“[T]he fact that petitioner
discussed [an] issue in the text of his petition for certiorari does not bring
it before us. Rule 14.1(a) requires that a subsidiary question be fairly
included in the question presented for our review” (internal quotation
marks and brackets omitted)); Cooper Industries, Inc. v. Aviall Services,
Inc., 543 U. S. 157, 168–169 (2004) (“We ordinarily do not decide in the first
instance issues not decided below” (internal quotation marks omitted)).Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 397
Opinion of Stevens, J.
24a. In its motion for summary judgment, however, Citizens
United expressly abandoned its facial challenge, 1:07–
cv–2240–RCL–RWR, Docket Entry No. 52, pp. 1–2 (May
16, 2008), and the parties stipulated to the dismissal of that
claim, id., Nos. 53 (May 22, 2008), 54 (May 23, 2008), App. 6a.
The District Court therefore resolved the case on alternative
grounds,3 and in its jurisdictional statement to this Court,
Citizens United properly advised us that it was raising only
“an as-applied challenge to the constitutionality of . . . BCRA
§ 203.” Juris. Statement 5. The jurisdictional statement
never so much as cited Austin, the key case the majority
today overrules. And not one of the questions presented
suggested that Citizens United was surreptitiously raising
the facial challenge to § 203 that it previously agreed to dismiss.
In fact, not one of those questions raised an issue
based on Citizens United’s corporate status. Juris. Statement
(i). Moreover, even in its merits briefing, when Citizens
United injected its request to overrule Austin, it never
sought a declaration that § 203 was facially unconstitutional
as to all corporations and unions; instead it argued only that
the statute could not be applied to it because it was “funded
overwhelmingly by individuals.” Brief for Appellant 29; see
also id., at 10, 12, 16, 28 (affirming “as applied” character of
challenge to § 203); Tr. of Oral Arg. 4–9 (Mar. 24, 2009) (coun3
The majority states that, in denying Citizens United’s motion for a
preliminary injunction, the District Court “addressed” the facial validity
of BCRA § 203. Ante, at 330. That is true, in the narrow sense that the
court observed the issue was foreclosed by McConnell v. FEC, 540 U. S.
93 (2003). See 530 F. Supp. 2d 274, 278 (DC 2008) (per curiam). Yet as
explained above, Citizens United subsequently dismissed its facial challenge,
so that by the time the District Court granted the Federal Election
Commission’s (FEC) motion for summary judgment, App. 261a–262a, any
question about statutory validity had dropped out of the case. That latter
ruling by the District Court was the “final decision” from which Citizens
United appealed to this Court under BCRA § 403(a)(3). As regards the
lower court decision that has come before us, the claim that § 203 is facially
unconstitutional was neither pressed nor passed upon in any form.398 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
sel for Citizens United conceding that § 203 could be applied
to General Motors); id., at 55 (counsel for Citizens United
stating that “we accept the Court’s decision in [WRTL]”).
“ ‘It is only in exceptional cases coming here from the federal
courts that questions not pressed or passed upon below
are reviewed,’ ” Youakim v. Miller, 425 U. S. 231, 234 (1976)
(per curiam) (quoting Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S.
195, 200 (1927)), and it is “only in the most exceptional cases”
that we will consider issues outside the questions presented,
Stone v. Powell, 428 U. S. 465, 481, n. 15 (1976). The appellant
in this case did not so much as assert an exceptional
circumstance, and one searches the majority opinion in vain
for the mention of any. That is unsurprising, for none
exists.
Setting the case for reargument was a constructive step,
but it did not cure this fundamental problem. Essentially,
five Justices were unhappy with the limited nature of the
case before us, so they changed the case to give themselves
an opportunity to change the law.
As-Applied and Facial Challenges
This Court has repeatedly emphasized in recent years
that “[f]acial challenges are disfavored.” Washington State
Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S.
442, 450 (2008); see also Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of
Northern New Eng., 546 U. S. 320, 329 (2006) (“[T]he ‘normal
rule’ is that ‘partial, rather than facial, invalidation is the
required course,’ such that a ‘statute may . . . be declared
invalid to the extent that it reaches too far, but otherwise
left intact’ ” (quoting Brockett v. Spokane Arcades, Inc., 472
U. S. 491, 504 (1985); alteration in original)). By declaring
§ 203 facially unconstitutional, our colleagues have turned an
as-applied challenge into a facial challenge, in defiance of
this principle.
This is not merely a technical defect in the Court’s decision.
The unnecessary resort to a facial inquiry “run[s] conCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 399
Opinion of Stevens, J.
trary to the fundamental principle of judicial restraint that
courts should neither anticipate a question of constitutional
law in advance of the necessity of deciding it nor formulate
a rule of constitutional law broader than is required by the
precise facts to which it is to be applied.” Washington State
Grange, 552 U. S., at 450 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Scanting that principle “threaten[s] to short circuit the democratic
process by preventing laws embodying the will of the
people from being implemented in a manner consistent with
the Constitution.” Id., at 451. These concerns are heightened
when judges overrule settled doctrine upon which the
legislature has relied. The Court operates with a sledge
hammer rather than a scalpel when it strikes down one of
Congress’ most significant efforts to regulate the role that
corporations and unions play in electoral politics. It compounds
the offense by implicitly striking down a great many
state laws as well.
The problem goes still deeper, for the Court does all of
this on the basis of pure speculation. Had Citizens United
maintained a facial challenge, and thus argued that there
are virtually no circumstances in which BCRA § 203 can be
applied constitutionally, the parties could have developed,
through the normal process of litigation, a record about the
actual effects of § 203, its actual burdens and its actual benefits,
on all manner of corporations and unions.4 “Claims of
facial invalidity often rest on speculation,” and consequently
“raise the risk of premature interpretation of statutes on the
4 Shortly before Citizens United mooted the issue by abandoning its facial
challenge, the Government advised the District Court that it “require[d]
time to develop a factual record regarding [the] facial challenge.”
1:07–cv–2240–RCL–RWR, Docket Entry No. 47, p. 4 (Mar. 26, 2008). By
reinstating a claim that Citizens United abandoned, the Court gives it
a perverse litigating advantage over its adversary, which was deprived
of the opportunity to gather and present information necessary to its
rebuttal.400 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
basis of factually barebones records.” Id., at 450 (internal
quotation marks omitted). In this case, the record is not
simply incomplete or unsatisfactory; it is nonexistent. Congress
crafted BCRA in response to a virtual mountain of
research on the corruption that previous legislation had
failed to avert. The Court now negates Congress’ efforts
without a shred of evidence on how § 203 or its state-law
counterparts have been affecting any entity other than Citizens
United.5
Faced with this gaping empirical hole, the majority throws
up its hands. Were we to confine our inquiry to Citizens
United’s as-applied challenge, it protests, we would commence
an “extended” process of “draw[ing], and then redraw[ing],
constitutional lines based on the particular media
or technology used to disseminate political speech from a
particular speaker.” Ante, at 326. While tacitly acknowledging
that some applications of § 203 might be found constitutional,
the majority thus posits a future in which novel
First Amendment standards must be devised on an ad hoc
basis, and then leaps from this unfounded prediction to the
unfounded conclusion that such complexity counsels the
abandonment of all normal restraint. Yet it is a pervasive
5 In fact, we do not even have a good evidentiary record of how § 203
has been affecting Citizens United, which never submitted to the District
Court the details of Hillary’s funding or its own finances. We likewise
have no evidence of how § 203 and comparable state laws were expected
to affect corporations and unions in the future.
It is true, as the majority points out, that the McConnell Court evaluated
the facial validity of § 203 in light of an extensive record. See ante,
at 331–332. But that record is not before us in this case. And in any
event, the majority’s argument for striking down § 203 depends on its contention
that the statute has proved too “chilling” in practice—and in particular
on the contention that the controlling opinion in WRTL, 551 U. S.
449 (2007), failed to bring sufficient clarity and “breathing space” to this
area of law. See ante, at 329, 333–336. We have no record with which
to assess that claim. The Court complains at length about the burdens of
complying with § 203, but we have no meaningful evidence to show how
regulated corporations and unions have experienced its restrictions.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 401
Opinion of Stevens, J.
feature of regulatory systems that unanticipated events,
such as new technologies, may raise some unanticipated difficulties
at the margins. The fluid nature of electioneering
communications does not make this case special. The fact
that a Court can hypothesize situations in which a statute
might, at some point down the line, pose some unforeseen
as-applied problems, does not come close to meeting the
standard for a facial challenge.6
The majority proposes several other justifications for the
sweep of its ruling. It suggests that a facial ruling is necessary
because, if the Court were to continue on its normal
course of resolving as-applied challenges as they present
themselves, that process would itself run afoul of the First
Amendment. See, e. g., ante, at 326 (as-applied review process
“would raise questions as to the courts’ own lawful authority”);
ibid. (“Courts, too, are bound by the First Amendment”).
This suggestion is perplexing. Our colleagues
elsewhere trumpet “our duty ‘to say what the law is,’ ” even
when our predecessors on the bench and our counterparts in
Congress have interpreted the law differently. Ante, at 365
(quoting Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803)).
We do not typically say what the law is not as a hedge
against future judicial error. The possibility that later
courts will misapply a constitutional provision does not give
6 Our cases recognize a “type of facial challenge in the First Amendment
context under which a law may be overturned as impermissibly overbroad
because a substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional.”
Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party, 552
U. S. 442, 449, n. 6 (2008) (internal quotation marks omitted). Citizens
United has not made an overbreadth argument, and “[w]e generally do not
apply the strong medicine of overbreadth analysis where the parties fail
to describe the instances of arguable overbreadth of the contested law,”
ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). If our colleagues nonetheless
concluded that § 203’s fatal flaw is that it affects too much protected
speech, they should have invalidated it for overbreadth and given guidance
as to which applications are permissible, so that Congress could go about
repairing the error.402 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
us a basis for pretermitting litigation relating to that
provision.7
The majority suggests that a facial ruling is necessary because
anything less would chill too much protected speech.
See ante, at 326–327, 329, 333–336. In addition to begging
the question what types of corporate spending are constitutionally
protected and to what extent, this claim rests on the
assertion that some significant number of corporations have
been cowed into quiescence by FEC “ ‘censor[ship].’ ” Ante,
at 335. That assertion is unsubstantiated, and it is hard to
square with practical experience. It is particularly hard to
square with the legal landscape following WRTL, which held
that a corporate communication could be regulated under
§ 203 only if it was “susceptible of no reasonable interpretation
other than as an appeal to vote for or against a specific
candidate.” 551 U. S., at 470 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.) (emphasis
added). The whole point of this test was to make
§ 203 as simple and speech-protective as possible. The
Court does not explain how, in the span of a single election
cycle, it has determined The Chief Justice’s project to be
a failure. In this respect, too, the majority’s critique of
line-drawing collapses into a critique of the as-applied review
method generally.8
7 Also perplexing is the majority’s attempt to pass blame to the Government
for its litigating position. By “hold[ing] out the possibility of ruling
for Citizens United on a narrow ground yet refrain[ing] from adopting that
position,” the majority says, the Government has caused “added uncertainty
[that] demonstrates the necessity to address the question of statutory
validity.” Ante, at 333. Our colleagues have apparently never heard
of an alternative argument. Like every litigant, the Government would
prefer to win its case outright; failing that, it would prefer to lose on a
narrow ground. The fact that there are numerous different ways this
case could be decided, and that the Government acknowledges as much,
does not demonstrate anything about the propriety of a facial ruling.
8 The majority’s “chilling” argument is particularly inapposite with respect
to 2 U. S. C. § 441b’s longstanding restriction on the use of corporate
general treasury funds for express advocacy. If there was ever any significant
uncertainty about what counts as the functional equivalent of exCite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 403
Opinion of Stevens, J.
The majority suggests that, even though it expressly dismissed
its facial challenge, Citizens United nevertheless preserved
it—not as a freestanding “claim,” but as a potential
argument in support of “a claim that the FEC has violated
its First Amendment right to free speech.” Ante, at 330;
see also ante, at 376 (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (describing
Citizens United’s claim as: “[T]he Act violates the First
Amendment”). By this novel logic, virtually any submission
could be reconceptualized as “a claim that the Government
has violated my rights,” and it would then be available to
the Court to entertain any conceivable issue that might be
relevant to that claim’s disposition. Not only the as-applied/
facial distinction, but the basic relationship between litigants
and courts, would be upended if the latter had free rein to
construe the former’s claims at such high levels of generality.
There would be no need for plaintiffs to argue their case;
they could just cite the constitutional provisions they think
relevant, and leave the rest to us.9
Finally, the majority suggests that though the scope of Citizens
United’s claim may be narrow, a facial ruling is necessary
as a matter of remedy. Relying on a law review article,
it asserts that Citizens United’s dismissal of the facial challenge
does not prevent us “ ‘from making broader pronouncements
of invalidity in properly “as-applied” cases.’ ” Ante,
at 331 (quoting Fallon, As-Applied and Facial Challenges and
press advocacy, there has been little doubt about what counts as express
advocacy since the “magic words” test of Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 44,
n. 52 (1976) (per curiam). Yet even though Citizens United’s briefs never
once mention § 441b’s restriction on express advocacy; even though this
restriction does not generate chilling concerns; and even though no one
has suggested that Hillary counts as express advocacy; the majority nonetheless
reaches out to opine that this statutory provision is “invalid” as
well. Ante, at 365.
9 The majority adds that the distinction between facial and as-applied
challenges does not have “some automatic effect” that mechanically controls
the judicial task. Ante, at 331. I agree, but it does not follow that
in any given case we should ignore the distinction, much less invert it.404 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
Third-Party Standing, 113 Harv. L. Rev. 1321, 1339 (2000)
(hereinafter Fallon)); accord, ante, at 376 (opinion of Roberts,
C. J.) (“Regardless whether we label Citizens United’s
claim a ‘facial’ or ‘as-applied’ challenge, the consequences of
the Court’s decision are the same”). The majority is on
firmer conceptual ground here. Yet even if one accepts this
part of Professor Fallon’s thesis, one must proceed to ask
which as-applied challenges, if successful, will “properly” invite
or entail invalidation of the underlying statute.10 The
paradigmatic case is a judicial determination that the legislature
acted with an impermissible purpose in enacting a
provision, as this carries the necessary implication that all
future as-applied challenges to the provision must prevail.
See Fallon 1339–1340.
Citizens United’s as-applied challenge was not of this sort.
Until this Court ordered reargument, its contention was that
BCRA § 203 could not lawfully be applied to a feature-length
video-on-demand film (such as Hillary) or to a nonprofit corporation
exempt from taxation under 26 U. S. C. § 501(c)(4)11
and funded overwhelmingly by individuals (such as itself).
See Brief for Appellant 16–41. Success on either of these
claims would not necessarily carry any implications for the
validity of § 203 as applied to other types of broadcasts, other
10 Professor Fallon proposes an intricate answer to this question that
the majority ignores. Fallon 1327–1359. It bears mention that our colleagues
have previously cited Professor Fallon’s article for the exact opposite
point from the one they wish to make today. In Gonzales v. Carhart,
550 U. S. 124 (2007), the Court explained that “[i]t is neither our obligation
nor within our traditional institutional role to resolve questions of constitutionality
with respect to each potential situation that might develop,”
and “[f]or this reason, ‘[a]s-applied challenges are the basic building blocks
of constitutional adjudication.’ ” Id., at 168 (opinion for the Court by
Kennedy, J.) (quoting Fallon 1328 (second alteration in original)).
11 Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)(4) applies, inter alia, to nonprofit organizations
“operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare, . . .
the net earnings of which are devoted exclusively to charitable, educational,
or recreational purposes.”Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 405
Opinion of Stevens, J.
types of corporations, or unions. It certainly would not invalidate
the statute as applied to a large for-profit corporation.
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 8, 4 (Mar. 24, 2009) (counsel for
Citizens United emphasizing that appellant is “a small, nonprofit
organization, which is very much like [an MCFL corporation],”
and affirming that its argument “definitely would
not be the same” if Hillary were distributed by General Motors).12
There is no legitimate basis for resurrecting a facial
challenge that dropped out of this case 20 months ago.
Narrower Grounds
It is all the more distressing that our colleagues have manufactured
a facial challenge, because the parties have advanced
numerous ways to resolve the case that would facilitate
electioneering by nonprofit advocacy corporations such
as Citizens United, without toppling statutes and precedents.
Which is to say, the majority has transgressed yet another
“cardinal” principle of the judicial process: “[I]f it is not necessary
to decide more, it is necessary not to decide more,”
PDK Labs. Inc. v. Drug Enforcement Admin., 362 F. 3d 786,
12 The Chief Justice is therefore much too quick when he suggests
that, “[e]ven if considered in as-applied terms, a holding in this case that
the Act may not be applied to Citizens United—because corporations as
well as individuals enjoy the pertinent First Amendment rights—would
mean that any other corporation raising the same challenge would also
win.” Ante, at 376 (concurring opinion). That conclusion would only follow
if the Court were to ignore Citizens United’s plausible as-applied arguments
and instead take the implausible position that all corporations and
all types of expenditures enjoy the same First Amendment protections,
which always trump the interests in regulation. At times, the majority
appears to endorse this extreme view. At other times, however, it appears
to suggest that nonprofit corporations have a better claim to First
Amendment protection than for-profit corporations, see ante, at 337, 355,
“advocacy” organizations have a better claim than other nonprofits, ante,
at 337, domestic corporations have a better claim than foreign corporations,
ante, at 362, small corporations have a better claim than large corporations,
ante, at 354–356, and printed matter has a better claim than
broadcast communications, ante, at 349. The majority never uses a multinational
business corporation in its hypotheticals.406 CITIZENS UNITED v. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM’N
Opinion of Stevens, J.
799 (CADC 2004) (Roberts, J., concurring in part and concurring
in judgment).
Consider just three of the narrower grounds of decision
that the majority has bypassed. First, the Court could have
ruled, on statutory grounds, that a feature-length film
distributed through video-on-demand does not qualify as
an “electioneering communication” under § 203 of BCRA,
2 U. S. C. § 441b. BCRA defines that term to encompass
certain communications transmitted by “broadcast, cable, or
satellite.” § 434(f)(3)(A). When Congress was developing
BCRA, the video-on-demand medium was still in its infancy,
and legislators were focused on a very different sort of programming:
short advertisements run on television or radio.
See McConnell, 540 U. S., at 207. The sponsors of BCRA
acknowledge that the FEC’s implementing regulations do
not clearly apply to video-on-demand transmissions. See
Brief for Senator John McCain et al. as Amici Curiae 17–18.
In light of this ambiguity, the distinctive characteristics of
video-on-demand, and “[t]he elementary rule . . . that every
reasonable construction must be resorted to, in order to save
a statute from unconstitutionality,” Hooper v. California,
155 U. S. 648, 657 (1895), the Court could have reasonably
ruled that § 203 does not apply to Hillary.13
Second, the Court could have expanded the MCFL exemption
to cover § 501(c)(4) nonprofits that accept only a de mini-
mis amount of money from for-profit corporations. Citizens
United professes to be such a group: Its brief says it “is
funded predominantly by donations from individuals who
support [its] ideological message.” Brief for Appellant 5.
Numerous Courts of Appeals have held that de minimis
business support does not, in itself, remove an otherwise
13 The Court entirely ignores this statutory argument. It concludes
that § 203 applies to Hillary on the basis of the film’s content, ante, at
324–326, without considering the possibility that § 203 does not apply to
video-on-demand transmissions generally.Cite as: 558 U. S. 310 (2010) 407
Opinion of Stevens, J.
qualifying organization from the ambit of MCFL.14 This
Court could have simply followed their lead.15
Finally, let us not forget Citizens United’s as-applied
constitutional challenge. Precisely because Citizens United
looks so much like the MCFL organizations we have exempted
from regulation, while a feature-length video-ondemand
film looks so unlike the types of electoral advocacy
Congress has found deserving of regulation, this challenge is
a substantial one. As the appellant’s own arguments show,
the Court could have easily limited the breadth of its constitutional
holding had it declined to adopt the novel notion that
speakers and speech acts must always be treated identically—and
always spared expenditures restrictions—in the
political realm. Yet the Court nonetheless turns its back on
the as-applied review process that has been a staple of campaign
finance litigation since Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1
14 See Colorado Right to Life Comm., Inc. v. Coffman, 498 F. 3d 1137,
1148 (CA10 2007) (adopting this rule and noting that “every other circuit
to have addressed this issue” has done likewise); Brief for Independent
Sector as Amicus Curiae 10–11 (collecting cases). The Court rejects this
solution in part because the Government “merely suggest[s] it” and “does
not say that it agrees with the interpretation.” Ante, at 328, 329. Our
colleagues would thus punish a defendant for showing insufficient excitement
about a ground it has advanced, at the same time that they decide
the case on a ground the plaintiff expressly abandoned. The Court also
protests that a de minimis standard would “requir[e] intricate case-bycase
determinations.” Ante, at 329. But